1. The word “considerable” in the passage is closet in meaning to  A) significant  B) various  C) complex  D) surprising2. According to paragraph 1, what makes it surprising that spiders have adapted to different environments?  A) Spider webs do not function well in watery conditions.  B) Spiders have a relatively limited physical reach.  C) Spiders have kept the same basic body shape throughout their history.  D) The behavior of the insects that spiders prey on can vary greatly depending on the conditions.3. According to paragraph 2, which of the following is NOT true of spiders and their silk?  A) The first spiders were able to produce more types of silk than can recently evolved spiders.  B) Recently evolved spider species can product at least six types of silk.  C) Modern spiders produce each type of silk in a different gland.  D) Spiders are the only life-form able to make more than one kind of silk.4. According to paragraph 2, the fact that each major new type of silk correlates with a huge growth in the number of spider species suggests that  A) the ancestors of “living-fossil” spiders made fewer types of silk than “living-fossil” spiders do  B) each new spider species had more silk glands than the species from which it evolved  C) the earliest spider species were less well adapted to their environments than modern spider species are to theirs  D) new silk varieties allowed spiders to become established in environments previously unoccupied by spiders5. According to paragraph 3, which of the following is NOT true of spider silk?  A) The protein in spider silk is made from different combinations of amino acids.  B) Spider silk that resembles wool requires more protein molecules than other varieties do.  C) Spider silk can be as strong as metal or other substances made by humans.  D) Variations in stickiness and strength allow silk to serve many different purposes.6. The word “innovation” in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) function  B) success  C) activity  D) change7. According to paragraph 4, what does research from the 1990s reveal about spider silk genes?  A) There are many families of spider silk genes.  B) Factors unrelated to genetic changes influence biological innovation.  C) New silk genes are descended from genes of the same type.  D) An individual silk gene can produce a variety of silk proteins.8. According to paragraph 4, it is possible for a change in a single silk gene in a spider to  A) change proteins other than silk proteins  B) enhance the spider’s ability to protect its young offspring  C) change the spider’s silk proteins into other kinds of protein  D) improve the spider’s chances of living long enough to reproduce9. The word “evident” in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) possible  B) clear  C) predictable  D) eventual10. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.  A) Scientists still have trouble identifying single gene changes that result in an advantageous adaptation, even though they are now better able to recognize gene changes.  B) Scientists understand relatively little about how gene changes affect proteins, which makes it hard for them to identify the exact links between genes and an adaptation.  C) Scientists’ ability to connect particular gene changes with beneficial adaptations is rapidly improving as they learn how to more accurately identify gene changes.  D) Scientists are able to identify the links between gene changes and proteins, but they still find it difficult to make connections between proteins and survival mechanisms.11. Which TWO factors below are identified in paragraph 5 as possibly preventing scientists from being able to link gene changes to improved survival in animals? You must select TWO answers to receive credit.  A) The complexity of many survival mechanisms  B) Inadequate fossil evidence for many survival mechanisms  C) Uncertainty about the benefits of many survival mechanisms  D) Problems identifying the interactions among specific proteins created by genes12. The word “succeeding” in the passage is closest in meaning to   A) multiple   B) new   C) following   D) distant13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   Or a gene for thicker silk might allow another spider to put webs in places where high winds would completely destroy webs made of thinner silk.   Where would the sentence best fit?14. Prose Summary   Spider evolution has followed a very different path than insect evolution has.   Answer Choices:   A) The development of silks for functions such as protecting offspring and catching prey made it possible for spiders to keep their basic body shape even as they occupied new niches.   B) The rise of new types of silk has made it possible for an individual spider species to dominate an ecological niche by reducing the number of members of competing species.   C) Individual genes produce individual silk proteins, and the silks created by these proteins have a range of different characteristics which can help a spider adapt to new environments.   D) The recent discovery of “living-fossil” spiders has given scientists additional information about adaptive mechanisms by showing how genes interact with glands to produce new types of silk.   E) Genetic changes in silk proteins can be linked to adaptations improving a spider’s chances of survival, thereby giving scientists an opportunity to study natural selection at the genetic level.   F) Given the right environmental circumstances, a new silk gene may evolve buy only rarely does the gene produce a new silk protein with substantially different characteristics.