1. In paragraph 1, the author announces that seabird colonies will be discussed in order to examine  A) the risks faced by birds that live in colonies during the breeding season  B) the reproductive advantages of a seemingly dangerous behavior  C) why infectious disease and other dangers increase during the breeding season  D) why seabirds are more likely than other birds to form breeding colonies2. The word "overwhelm" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) challenge  B) exceed  C) survive  D) limit3. Which of the sentence below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.  A) Birds that form larger nesting colonies have less chance of being killed by predators than do birds that form smaller nesting colonies.  B) Birds such as gannets tend to form nesting colonies of 1,000 members or more because this greatly reduces their risk of predation.  C) Local predators kill about the same number of birds in a breeding season whether nesting colonies are made up of 1,000 birds or 200 birds.  D) By forming very large colonies, birds are able to stay safe from predators who hunt during breeding season.4. In paragraph 2, the author mentions which of the following pieces of information to illustrate the information center hypothesis?  A) Gannets and cliff swallows are more successful hunters than are other colonial species.  B) Living in large groups often has antipredator benefits for some species.  C) Some colonial species will follow birds that are good hunters to feeding grounds.  D) Gannets are less vulnerable to predation at breeding season than they are at other times.5. The phrase "the odds of" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) the ease of  B) the consequences of  C) the likelihood of  D) the length of6. According to paragraph 3, why do young birds of the murres species all leave the colony at about the same time?  A) So that their departure can occur at a time when predators are least likely to be active  B) So that foxes will be likely to prey upon local gulls instead of upon the murres  C) So that individual young are less likely to be killed by predators  D) So that the parents can more easily accompany the young fledglings7. Paragraph 3 answers all of the following questions EXCEPT:  A) Where do thick-billed murres usually build their nests?  B) Where do young murres intend to go when they first leave their nests?  C) How do parents assist their young when they depart?  D) What percentage of young murres are captured before they reach the ground?8. It can be inferred from paragraphs 3 and 4 that Danielle Clode would agree with which of the following statements about fledgling thick-billed murres?  A) Young murres achieve substantial foraging gains by making their first departure from the nest at the same time.  B) The first departure from the nest of thick-billed murres supports the information center hypothesis but not the dilution effect hypothesis.  C) Young murres actually have the same chance of being captured by predators whether they leave the nest at the same time or individually.  D) Young murres receive only a small benefit against predation by leaving the nest at the same time.9. The word "tactics" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) limitations  B) interactions  C) opportunities  D) strategies10. The word "pursue" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) seek  B) eat  C) prefer  D) need11. According to paragraph 5, which of the following types of birds tends to form the largest colonies?  A) Offshore feeders that hunt far out at sea  B) Inshore feeders that forage near the shore  C) Birds such as marine waders that hunt in the intertidal zone  D) Shore feeders that stay close to their nest when hunting12. According to paragraph 5, birds are likely to gain the most from observing other hunters when  A) food sources are most plentiful near the shore  B) prey are found in large but unevenly distributed groups  C) the location of food sources is fairly predictable  D) prey tend to swim alone rather than in groups13.Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   Nonetheless, they have adopted that style of living.   Where would the sentence best fit?14. Prose Summary   Living together in large groups has both advantages and disadvantages for birds.   Answer Choices:   A) It is often argued that the dangers of group life have been overstated, and that living in small groups or alone is often more dangerous to birds than living in large colonies.   B) Some researchers emphasize the foraging benefits of group life, while others focus on how group life might decrease the risk of predation.   C) For species in which young birds fledge before they can fly, the antipredator benefits of group life are much more important than the foraging benefits.   D) Evidence from some species supports the dilution effect hypothesis, though the antipredator benefits of group life may be relatively small.   E) Certain birds may improve their chances of locating large amounts of prey by foraging in groups, and mass attacks may help them to capture prey once it is located.   F) The researcher Danielle Clode has demonstrated that a variety of seabird species, including inshore and shore feeders, forage most effectively in large groups.