1. In paragraph 1, it can be inferred that guilds before 1000 A.D. differed from guilds in later times in that earlier guilds  A) included members with different occupations in the same guild  B) sold cheaper commodities in local markets  C) did not include bankers or merchants of wealth and social prominence  D) were generally limited to artisans2. According to paragraph 1, what was true about the "major" guilds in Florence?  A) Their membership was limited to bankers, spice dealers, cloth merchants, and goldsmiths.  B) Their membership was more varied than that of other guilds.  C) They had higher social standing than other guilds.  D) They had more members than other guilds.3. Which of the following can be inferred from paragraph 1 about retailers?  A) They were members of the same guilds as artisans.  B) They mainly sold products obtained from the major guilds.  C) They belonged to the group referred to as the popolo grasso.  D) They did not have a high social status in Florence.4. The word "rigorous" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) frequent  B) proper  C) strict  D) documented5. According to paragraph 3, which of the following was generally true of craft guild members?  A) They had specialized skills which were critical to their success.  B) They depended on investors to equip their workshop.  C) They received wages only if they did not make a profit.  D) They did not own their own workshops.6. The purpose of paragraph 4 is to  A) illustrate the methods used by guilds to enforce minimum standards in manufacture  B) provide further examples of functions performed by guilds  C) help explain why guilds appeared throughout Europe only after the disintegration of the Roman Empire  D) support the idea that virtually all the responsibilities of urban leadership were in the hands of guild members7. According to paragraph 5, what happened to apprentices immediately after their period of apprenticeship ended?  A) They were accepted as members of the guild.  B) They graduated to become journeymen.  C) They began training with a guild master.  D) They submitted work they had produced for consideration as a "masterpiece." 8. What role does the sentence "Nonmembers could not engage in the trade except as apprentices or journeymen" play?  A) It clarifies the way guilds gave the privilege of monopoly to their members.  B) It provides an example of the kind of tough standards the guilds demanded from their members.  C) It explains how the guilds managed to set prices at a level considered "just."   D) It proves that the guilds were not concerned about limiting competition.9. The phrase "in accord with" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) in addition to  B) corresponding to  C) restricting  D) instead of10. According to paragraph 6, why did guild rulers keep workshops small?   A) Because there was only a limited amount of equipment available to supply all the workshops   B) Because they wanted to prevent any of the masters from becoming much more successful than the others   C) Because they did not want prices to rise beyond the level they considered just   D) Because that was the only way to make sure that quality of production was maintained11. The word "solidarity" in the passage is closest in meaning to   A) meaningfulness   B) honor   C) unity   D) well being12. According to paragraph 7, the guilds did all of the following EXCEPT   A) provide banquets for the religious and village leaders   B) provide members with a sense of identity and common purpose   C) care for the widows and orphans of members   D) help pay the funeral expenses of members and their families13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   They also had political power.   Where would the sentence best fit?14.Prose Summary   In Western Europe, guilds played a significant role in urban society during the medieval period.   Answer Choices:   A) Guilds originally developed primarily to serve the supportive functions traditionally performed by the village community or the village church since no institutions existed in cities to fill that role.   B) The status of each profession's guild varied from city to city depending on how rich its members were.   C) Members of the elite merchant guilds made up the patriciate, a hereditary ruling class with near-permanent control of higher offices and leadership in urban areas.   D) Artisans belonged to craft guilds, which regulated the training of workers, secured a monopoly for their members, and provided important social benefits.   E) Guild rules ensured the high quality and correct weight and measure of goods sold, and guilds helped maintain the reliability of coins.   F) Because guilds aimed to be a kind of brotherhood, the only women they enrolled were the widows of masters.