Listen to part of a lecture in an Astronomy class

(male professor) Exoplanets are planets outside Earth's solar system, planets in orbit around stars other than our Sun. The first confirmed discovery was in the late 1980s. And since then astronomers have detected over 500 exoplanets. Now, detecting exoplanets directly, that is, trying to actually see them by way of telescope, has been extremely difficult. You see, exoplanets appear very small very faint and extremely close to the star they orbit, their parent star. And this means that exoplanets will often be hidden by the glare of the parent star. So, trying to see an exoplanet is like, well, trying to see from faraway the light of a flashlight shining out next to a big bright spotlight, but more on direct methods in a minute.

Let's start with how we know exoplanets even existed, even before we could directly see them in telescopes. Well, what happened was astronomers used indirect methods to infer their presence. You see, they had observed that some stars appeared to wobble slightly and they wondered what was causing these small irregular movements. And, well, after years of careful study, astronomers were able to determine that a given star's wobble was the result of an exoplanet's gravitational force on that star, uh, tugging, which causes the star to move.

Now, if we look at binary star system, a system of two stars orbiting around a common point, both stars will appear to wobble. This means that when astronomers detect only one object that wobbles with no other wobbling objects near it, they can be reasonably sure that what they're observing is the effect of exoplanet orbiting a star. Another way to determine an exoplanet's existence, astronomers also try to detect the dimming of a star at regular intervals. This dimming will happen as a planet crosses in front of the parent star, temporarily blocking its rays. 

OK, so, indirect methods, they are fine for confirming that an exoplanet is there and providing us with other limited information about the planet itself. But the best way to determine its chemical composition, which will tell us things like what its environment is like, if it could support life, the only way for us to get extensive information of this sort would be to analyze the light coming directly from the exoplanet.

Now, until recently, we could only directly observe exoplanets under exceptional circumstances. Um, with the aid of the Hobble space telescope and some very large ground-based telescopes, we have been able to see especially large exoplanets that are widely separated from their parent stars. Well, fortunately, with the recent development of some imaging techniques, we've been able to directly detect and photograph of smaller exoplanets using smaller telescopes.

We've done this by combining two different newer technologies. Let's look at the first one, adaptive optics. Now, you all know that when we look at stars from Earth, they appear to twinkle, because when starlight passes through Earth's atmosphere, the light gets distorted. We can adjust this distorting effect by equipping our telescopes with adaptive optics. Adaptive optics produce very sharp photographs of a star by rapidly adjusting the telescope lens to correct this distorting effect. Telescopes equipped with adaptive optics can capture such sharp images of stars that the photographs looked as if they're taken from space.

However, adaptive optics won't solve a problem I mentioned earlier, that is, the bright light of the star will still obscure the orbiting exoplanet. So, the trick is to suppress the starlight without blocking out the light from exoplanet. In order to do this, we can attach a device called a coronagraph to our telescope. There are now two types of coronagraphs, a traditional coronagraph blocks off most of the light from the star by using a small black disk. However, this is a complication. Even when we use this disk, some of the starlight leaks around the disk and creates a series of alternating bright and dark rings around the star called a diffraction pattern. And this ring pattern will mask the image of the orbiting planet and we still won't be able to capture an image of it, especially if the exoplanet orbits relatively close to the parent star.

To solve this problem, a new type of coronagraph called a vortex coronagraph was developed. A vortex coronagraph is a glass lens with a spiral pattern etched into it. The spiral pattern successfully blocks the star and nearly eliminates the surrounding diffraction pattern, allowing us to actually see exoplanets orbiting near their parent star.

