#article
Display Student Artwork in the Library

Many art students at this university produce beautiful paintings, sculptures, and photographs. I think the university should exhibit their artwork in the library. Since so many students go to the library to study and look for books, a lot of people would automatically view the art if it were displayed there, which would be a great way for art students to have their work more widely seen. Also, it would make the library look a lot better, so the surroundings would be more pleasant and interesting for students who study there.
Sincerely,
Jeff Myers


#record
Now listen to two students discussing the letter.

(man) Hey, did you see Jeff’s letter on the paper today?
(woman) Yeah, and I think it’s a great idea.
(man) But don’t art students already exhibit their work at the gallery and the art building?
(woman) Yeah, they do, but that’s way out on the edge of campus. And except for art majors and people taking art courses, most students don’t want to be bothered, going such a long distance, to see students’ art exhibition held there.
(man) I haven’t thought of that, but, you’re right. That gallery is usually pretty empty.
(woman) Right, because it’s mostly art students who go there and that’s not good enough. Other students should get to see that work, too. And this way, they could, since everyone goes to the library to study. I’m there almost every day and so are most of my friends.
(man) I know me too.
(woman) I also agree with his other point because, you know, it’s a brand new building and they still haven’t done anything about decorating it, so the place looks kind of bare except for the books of course. There’re all these big white walls with nothing on them. It’s really boring.
(man) I know. There’s not much to look at.
(woman) So, having the works of students there would brighten things up and get some color on the walls. It would totally transform the place and make people want to go there even more.

#question
The woman expresses her opinion about the letter-writer’s proposal. Briefly summarize the proposal. Then state her opinion and explain the reasons she gives for holding that opinion.

