#record
Listen to a conversation between two students.

(man) Hey, Jen, got any special plan for the upcoming holiday?
(woman) Well, it's sort of up in the air right now. I think I have a dilemma.
(man) Why, what's the problem?
(woman) Well, usually I spend the whole spring break at home with my parents.
(man) Sounds pretty relaxing.
(woman) Sure, only this year there's a trip organized for my geology class. It's not a class requirement or anything, but I was really excited when I heard about it and I signed up. The plan is to spend time in the mountains, you know, hiking and camping, looking at rock formations. But I haven’t told my parents yet.
(man) Oh, so you won’t be going home for the spring break after all.
(woman) Well, that's the thing. Now, I just found out that my sister's traveling home to spend that week with my parents. She's been living abroad for the past year and I haven’t seen her for a long time.
(man) So your sister is assuming you’ll be home, too.
(woman) Yeah, exactly! And she has just sent me an email about some cool things she’d like us to do together.
(man) So what are you gonna decide?
(woman) Well, I’m thinking maybe I should cancel my plans to go on the geology trip. Just drive home and spend the week visiting my parents and catching up with my sister.
(man) OK, I’m sure you’ll enjoy that.
(woman) The thing is, I don’t want to lose this opportunity to go to the mountains. Camping and being outdoors with my classmates would sure by fun and a good experience.
(man) So, maybe your sister would understand, if you went on the geology trip instead.
(woman) Yeah, maybe my sister and I can get together another time like the summer. That's just a few more months away and maybe she wouldn’t mind not seeing me this time. I’ll hate to disappoint her but, hmm, I’m just not sure.

#question
Briefly summarize the problem the speakers are discussing. Then state which of the two solutions from the conversation you would recommend. Explain the reasons for your recommendation.
