

L1      Listen to part of a lecture in an educational psychology class

Some of you may have heard about learning styles, the idea that there are different ways to teach or learn new material, new information, and these are not equally effective for every learner. Different learners prefer different ways of learning. For example, visual learners might want to see vocabulary words written down or be shown a picture or a chart. An auditory learner would want to hear the new word being used. A kinesthetic or physical learner would prefer to physically interact with the material in some way, like uh, like maybe moving around a set of cards with new vocabulary words written on them. 

And from this idea of different learning styles, something called the Meshing Hypothesis has developed. The idea behind the Meshing Hypothesis is that learning takes place most effectively when it‘s matched to the individual student‘s preferred learning style. And so if this is the case, it would make sense to match how we teach our students to how each one prefers to learn, right? The Meshing Hypothesis has influenced a lot of schools in the United States, which have spent a lot of money to determine how individual students prefer to learn and also to purchase materials for teaching these students by targeting their individual learning styles. 

But is there any evidence to support the hypothesis? Well, teachers do tell lots of anecdotes, stories about how their students learn best, but as for solid evidence from scientific studies, well, a recent journal article concludes it doesn‘t amount to much. The article was written by four psychologists who looked at the experimental research that‘s been done on the Meshing Hypothesis. They wanted to see how well students did when the learning style of each student was identified and then all the students were randomly divided into classes where the teaching was based on one particular learning style or another. The only really valid proof for the Meshing Hypothesis, they argued would be to give the same test to all the students at the end of the course and see whether students in a class that matched their learning style generally outperformed students in a class that didn‘t match their learning style. As it turns out, sometimes performance matched up with the students‘ learning style and sometimes it didn‘t. So based on these results, the psychologists argued that there‘s no point in trying to adapt teaching styles to match the learning style of each students, which, by the way, has big implications for the push to purchase to expensive educational products that target individual learning styles.

Instead, and this is the key I think, the common thread in the research was that all students tended to do better when the instructional technique was tailored to match the material they were learning. What I mean is let‘s say you‘re a science teacher and you‘re going to teach your students about molecular thrusters. You could give your students something to read, or you could design an activity where your students actually build models of molecules. If you accept that the Meshing Hypothesis, you might try to present separate lessons to fit the distinct learning styles of different students, but research shows that most students, even those who considered themselves visual or auditory learning, will do best with this particular subject matter if they build models. Interesting, huh? And I‘d say a warning to us to be a bit more critical before we blindly adopt the latest trend.

On the other hand, the psychologists looked at experiments, but not teachers‘ anecdotes and observations. Teachers can directly observe the results that their instruction has on people, and some have said they do see a difference in students‘ learning when they, the teachers, match how they teach to how their students learn.

So, I have to wonder, if there‘s not potentially valuable information here, information that didn‘t get the consideration it deserves, in any case, it all comes back to the question of what role the Meshing Hypothesis should play in how we teach our students. Even some experts who totally believe in learning styles agree it‘s not a good idea to try to tailor teaching to each student. On the other hand, some research has shown that when instruction about learning styles is part of the training teachers receive, teachers do tend to vary their approach and their students do benefit.

