

L3         Listen to part of a lecture in an oceanography class

Teacher: For several decades now, we‘ve been picking up all sorts of sounds in the deep sea with hydrophones, that, that network of underwater microphones I mentioned. Of course, a lot of these sounds have been identified; sounds made by sea animals, movements of the earth‘s crust, ships, and submarines, the list goes on. But there are mysterious sounds, too; sounds that we‘re not sure of the source. Some last a few minutes, others drone on for years. We don‘t know if they‘re biological, geological, or human made, but it‘s important to find out and a lot of effort has been spent doing just that. 

When a mysterious sound is first detected, it‘s given a name, like, there‘s one called "Upsweep.¡" It‘s a flat tone, very low in pitch, accompanied by rising tones. Upsweep was heard continuously between 1991 and 1994, and for some reason, it got louder during the last 15 months of that period. At first, we thought upsweep was some sort of whale song, but that couldn‘t be because the sound was detected on both sides of the Pacific Ocean simultaneously. No whale could possibly make a sound that loud, loud enough to carry clear across the ocean. Also, upsweep‘s tonal pattern didn‘t vary, whereas whale songs change seasonally as the mammals migrate.

Female Student: Did we ever figure out the source?

Teacher: Well, some people think it came from an underwater volcano, like from gas bubbling out of a crack in the seabed, or a stream of lava coming into contact with seawater. The best evidence for this hypothesis comes from seismic studies. Geologists used a seismometer to trace upsweep‘s point of origin. 

Now, seismometers are normally associated with measuring the power of earthquakes, but earthquakes aren‘t the only things that show waves of motion through earth‘s crust. Seismic waves can be created when underwater sound waves hit a solid object, like an island. So, using seismometers, geologists were able to trace upfleet‘s origin to the Southern Pacific, about halfway between New Zealand and Chile. A research ship was dispatched to the area and found that there was indeed a chain of volcanoes there. But we still don‘t know if it was lava or gas that was making the sound, or something we haven‘t thought of yet. 

Another mysterious sound is named "slowdown.¡" Slowdown has been detected a few times every year since 1997, both in the Atlantic and Pacific Ocean. It‘s been described as sounding like an airplane. Some people think like upfleet, slowdown animates some underwater volcano, but because slowdown‘s in the Southern Hemisphere, which suggests the Antarctic region, one researcher, Christopher Fox, um, he‘s the director of a major acoustic monitoring project, well, Fox thinks it‘s from ice ¨C glacial ice. Slowdown‘s spectrogram, uh, a spectrogram is sort of a graph of sound frequencies, Slowdown‘s spectrogram looks a lot like the spectrogram of the sound made by rubbing your fingers over a piece of paper ¨C friction, basically. So, Fox hypothesized that slowdown‘s coming from a glacier sliding across a piece of the Antarctic continent. In fact, he tried to correlate the timing of slowdown with the occurrence of known ice events, like a huge chuck of rock. He didn‘t come up with anything, but that doesn‘t necessarily mean he‘s wrong. And if it is ice rubbing on land, well that‘s important information, even more important than using sound to find underwater volcanoes. It would be further evidence that the Antarctic ice sheet is breaking up, so the study of ocean acoustics could add to our knowledge base of climate change.

A challenging aspect of ocean acoustic research is that most sounds occur at very low frequency. We can‘t hear them by just putting on headphones and listening. What researchers have to do is record what may or may not be silent. Then, they speed up the recording. If there is a low frequency sound there, then we‘ll see it on the speeded up playback.

I‘ll leave you with one more mysterious sound. One called "Bloop.¡" We think it‘s made by an animal because it consists of a rapid variation in frequency, but it was detected by hydrophones that were placed very far apart. So, is there some creature out there larger than the largest whale? Or something far more efficient in making sound? Maybe one of you will eventually solve the puzzle.


