

L4       Listen to part of a lecture in a theater history class

Teacher: In many ways, the early 20th century was an exciting time in European theater. And in the arts, and society in general. New technology, new things, like the telephone, and innovations like electricity, all this had an influence on the arts and artists of the time. In fact, it spawned an important movement we now call ¡°Italian Futurism.¡± We formally date the start of this movement to 1909 when one of its founders, an Italian writer, published a manifesto, a declaration of the movement‘s idea and purpose. 

Female Student: But Italian Futurism? It was 100 years ago!

Teacher: Well, futurism doesn‘t refer so much to a set time as to an artistic approach, artistic ideal. So unlike, say, neoclassicism, Italian Futurism didn‘t look to the past for inspiration. Neoclassic art looks to the art and architecture of ancient Greece and Rome, but futurists didn‘t like tradition, or the concept of great art and things like that. Futurists were interested in new things, like the speed of the new technology that was coming about in the early 20th century and the futurists wanted their art to reflect this new society that they saw all around them. So let‘s look at a couple of the elements from futurist style and see how they‘re reflected in Futurist Theater. 

Okay, the first element we‘ll look at is the idea of speed. One of the biggest changes of the time was the development of machines capable of great speed. Who can give me some examples? Gary.

Male Student: Cars, airplanes, trains? Well, trains had been around a while by then, but they were faster and had more extensive networks. And speed also in, uh, well¡­

Teacher: Tell us! What were you going to say?

Male Student: I was thinking of what you mentioned about the telephone, so speed in communication.

Teacher: Yes! Good! Well, the futurists wanted to reflect this speed. 

Female student: But how do you put speed into theater? 

Teacher: A couple of ways. The first was with the length of the piece. A traditional play might be an hour a half, two hours long. But the futurists wanted their plays to be very brief. They called a lot of their work like this ¡°synthetic theater.¡± They called it this because they put together, they synthesized, all elements of theater into very short, quick pieces. I‘ll give you an example. There was a futurist play called ¡°There Is No Dog,¡± and in this play, the curtain rises, a dog walks across the stage, and the curtain falls. Well, clearly, this play rejected traditional conventions of theater, in part because it synthesized everything they wanted to say into one brief moment instead of dragging it out over two or three hours. Another way the futurists put speed into their theater was by playing with the pacing of the pieces performance. A number of these really short pieces were performed back stage, one right after the other, so you would have something like ¡°There Is No Dog¡± followed by someone reading a poem followed by someone reciting a manifesto followed by someone displaying a work of art followed by another one of these really short plays.

Female Student: Well, I can see how that would get across the idea of speed, but it must have been confusing.

Teacher: It‘s funny you should say that, because another element of futurist thought that‘s reflected in their theater is the notion of simultaneity. Simultaneity means things happening at the same time. Another aspect of the modern world the futurists wanted to show in their art was this sense of confusion, but at the same time, the dynamic energy of modern life, that all kinds of things happen at the same time and not in some kind of logical order that makes sense to everyone.

Male Student: So would they perform like, two plays at once? 

Teacher: Well, in a sense. A lot of futurist work included simultaneous speaking, simultaneous movement, and you can sort of imagine how that would look with three or four people talking at the same time, talking over one another, and often times they‘re not saying anything that makes sense. Nonsense syllables, that sort of thing. 

Female Student: But how did audiences respond to this?

Teacher: They didn‘t understand. There was often a lot of confusion. People would leave. People weren‘t sure what to make of this. But for the futurists, the confusion of the audience was intended. It, too, was a representation of the modern world.
