Listen to part of a lecture in an Anthropology class

(female professor) We'll continue looking at early native American societies. But, first let me ask, have you ever been to a baseball game and there're venders everywhere selling food or, uh, merchandise? Well, the idea of taking advantage of a large crowd of people gathered in a sport event and using that occasion to sell things isn't a new idea. Today I want to talk about an example from way back in the eleventh century in what's now the southwestern United States there was a group of people known as the Hohokam.

OK, a little background. The Hohokam were made up of separate communities; spread out over a large geographic area, but there's evidence these communities interacted. We know they gathered together for sporting events because, well, there were many ball courts scattered throughout the region with some courts able to hold up to five hundred spectators. And we believe the games played a significant role in Hohokam identity and culture.

We've also recently been able to gain some insights about the Hohokam economy by looking up ball court marketplaces. We know that the markets at the ball courts were not just local markets for local people because of ceramic evidence. You see, very similar types of pottery have been found all over the region. But relatively recently we determined that all that pottery was produced at just five source areas, not only that but artisans in the different areas tended to be specialists to produce only certain types of containers and each type was used for a specific purpose. 

So that begs the question, ¡°How were the Hohokam able to evenly distribute, from only five locations, such a large number of bowls and jars to consumers who were spread out over a large area?¡± There's no evidence that there was a central authority, um, a kind of a central
control to regulate production, distribution, prices, things like that. There's no real evidence for that in Hohokam society. In fact, scholars have long thought that the Hohokam had what referred to as horizontal market rings. A marketing system based on horizontal market rings is totally decentralized. Vendors set their own prices. They're not regulated by an over-watching authority. So that fits with all we know about the Hohokam.

What doesn't fit so well is, uh, we usually think you can't count on this type of marketplace to always have what you need. So in this kind of system people tend not to depend on the market for their basic necessities. They're more likely to be self-sufficient, to make things themselves. But, apparently, the Hohokam did rely on the marketplaces on specialists from faraway, from only those five locations. So how could the Hohokam do this within this type of system which we normally think of is unreliable? Something must have allowed the marketplaces to function more reliably than we'd normally predict. And that's where the ball courts come in.

These ball courts would have facilitated cooperation among the Hohokam people, people regularly met at ritual ball games, ball games that represented an important connection among the different communities. Anyway, these marketplaces would be really advantageous for pottery makers for a couple of reasons. First, you minimize your transportation costs. If everybody gets together in the same few large-scale marketplaces, you don't have to worry about sending multiple loads of pottery off to a lot of different areas. Also, if people are gathering from all around, you get the opportunity to sell your goods to people from sparsely populated areas, places you might not go otherwise, which increases your sales. So, perhaps our opinion about the efficiency of horizontal market rings needs some rethinking, right?

It seems that ball courts made up for the deficiencies one would expect to find in a decentralized marketplace economy. And in case you need more convincing, recent archeological findings show that the ball courts began to decline in popularity and eventually disintegrated in the latter part of the eleventh century and exactly at that time there's a really striking interruption in the production and distribution of clay containers. A particular type of clay pot called Buff Ware becomes much harder to find after the eleventh century.

This is fairly significant data because it suggests that the marketplaces started to decline at exactly the same time as the ball courts, more confirmation that the ball courts may have played an important role on in allowing the Hohokam to maintain large-scale markets even in the absence of a central political authority.
