Listen to part of a lecture in a Biology class

(female professor) Now, I'm, just to review last week's lecture. You'll remember we talked about the life cycle of amphibians, uh, frogs, toads, salamanders. And some of you were surprised to learn that not all amphibians lay eggs in water. That's understandable, especially when we think about the quintessential amphibian we think of the frog. And children learn at a very young age that frogs lay eggs in streams or ponds and these eggs hatch into tadpoles. Tadpoles swim around like fish until they grow limbs, lose their gills and tails, and move on to land. But, as we saw last week, this isn't true of all amphibians. It's not even true of all frogs. So, any questions about that before we move on, yes, David?

(male student) I remember reading somewhere that frog populations all over the world are declining. Some scientists think fungus might be killing them off or climate change might have something to do with it. Do you have any theories?

(professor) If I had the answer to that question, well, you mentioned two of the main suspects already. But recent research in Brazil had shed some light on the problem and it has to do with human activity. When humans take pristine forestland and cut it down for, say, agriculture, they leave the forest fragmented. Instead of large areas of forest, there will be small sections. Some will be wet fragments because they contain rivers or streams, while others will be dry.

Now, this is a big problem if you're an animal that depends both on wet and dry parts of the forest, say, like a species of frog that lays its eggs in water. Frog tadpoles live in water but the adults live in the dry forest. If these two habitats are no longer connected because of forest fragmentation, we have what the Brazilian researchers call habitat split.

Habitat split occurs when organism can no longer easily go from one part of its habitat to another. So, imagine you're a frog and you live in the forest but you go to the lake to breed. Now, imagine that a real estate developer decides to build houses along the lake, you know, waterfront property, great view. Well, all the houses and roads separate the forest from the lake you see. So, now, if you're going to breed, you have to cross roads and open spaces to get to the water. And once your young emerge from the lake, they'll have to do the same to get to the forest.

Now, the Brazilian researchers wanted to measure the effects of habitat split on aquatic breeding frogs and they chose the Atlantic Forest in southeastern Brazil as their study. The Atlantic Forest is home to more than four hundred eighty amphibian species. It is also one of Brazil's most endangered environments. Thanks to human activities only about 12 percent of the forest remains. And what's left is highly fragmented. So I suppose rather unfortunately, this makes the perfect setting for studying habitat split. Wendy?

(female student) Well, if so much of the forest is gone, how can you really measure the effects of habitat split and how can you tell how it's affecting frogs when, I mean, all animals would be affected by the loss of habitat, right?

(professor) You're right that all animals would feel the effect of habitat loss, Wendy, but that's not quite what we're talking about here. The researchers focused on areas where streams were separated from dry forest. That's habitat split. They weren't just looking at the total area that's no longer habitable.

(female student) Ah, so then in areas with split habitats frog population declined?

(professor) Well, the population of frogs in wet forest fragments was higher than dry fragments. And they found fewer juveniles in these dry fragments. Now, what does this suggest?

(female student) It sounds like juvenile frogs aren't making it back to the dry forest, not in great numbers anyway.

(professor) And that would be consistent with the hypothesis in the study about the effects of habitat split.

(female student) it sounds like habitat split is the answer to the mystery of vanishing frogs.

(professor) Well, I don't know if I'd go that far. We'd have to test the theory out; try it in other places where a population is declining and see what results we got.
