Listen to part of a lecture in a Mechanical Engineering class

(male professor) So as we explore new ways to use robots, the question about locomotion becomes crucial. How robots move depends in part on the environment they're intended for, like, underwater robots have propellers and rudders. For robots on land, designers often prefer legs rather than wheels because they are more adaptable. And designers often look to the animal world for ideas. Actually, some of the work done in studying legged locomotion has given biologists models of how animals and humans move. The best known model is the spring-mass model.

Now, the spring-mass model shows us how energy moves when we walk or run. Locomotion requires us to counteract gravity and to propel us forward at the same time. So when we strike the ground with our foot, we absorb energy, uh, similar to a compressed spring. And when that energy is released, it extends the leg and propels us up and forward. This model and other models have been used to create robots that walk on two legs. But, so far, collectively, their application is restricted to solid surfaces.

Now, recently, biologists had turned the tables and come across something that's provided ideas for improving our designs for locomotion on unstable surfaces like sand and even water. This discovery arises out of biologists' studies involving a small lizard that's native to Central America, the basilisk lizard.

What the biologists found while studying the basilisk lizard is that it has the remarkable ability to scurry across the surface of water, upright on its hind legs. It's really a cleaver defense mechanism. When it's threatened by a predator, the lizard hurries into the water and runs across its surface. Only a few types of spiders and insects can do that because they're so light they don't pierce the surface. The basilisk lizard can run across the surface of water for up to about 4.5 meters before it sinks into the water and starts swimming.

To find out more about how this works, researchers did some experiments. In a laboratory they sprinkled water with tiny reflective glass beads that sparkle when they're lit. Then they filmed the lizard running across the water with a high-speed video camera. By slowing down the video, the researchers were able to observe each phase of the movement in detail. And by seeing how the floating beads moved, they could calculate the amount of force that lizard generates during each phase of its stride.

Let's consider the stride for a minute. It definitely challenges the spring-mass model. The step is divided into three phases: the slap, the stroke, and the recovery. So the first part of the step, the slap, is where the foot pushes down into the water. The lizard uses enough force to create a pocket of air around the foot and this air pocket keeps its body above the water's surface. Now, in the next phase, the stroke phase, the lizard pushes itself forward by kicking its legs back through the water. Lastly during the recovery phase, the lizard brings its foot out of the water.

Now, to stay on top of the water, the lizard has to complete the whole stride before the air pocket collapses. So you can imagine how quickly this all happens. The researchers also found that, surprisingly, the force of the lizard step is projected to the side almost as forcefully as it's projected downward. It's the strong sideways motion that allows the lizard to stay upright. It's like the lizard is catching itself after tripping over and over as it propels itself forward.

So, using these principles of locomotion, a team of engineers has developed a basic robot that can move on the surface of water. First they tried a two-legged model but they found that a four-legged model performs better. Basically, this robot's a rectangular frame with a leg coming out of each corner. Each leg has a foot attached to it. It doesn't look much like a lizard but that's OK. Our goal shouldn't be to just copy nature but to understand the principles of how a natural system works and then to use these principles for our own creations. That's what the team has done in creating a prototype that can run on water. 

