Listen to part of a lecture in a Music Appreciation class

(male professor) When you think of an opera, of course you think of a theatrical production, a play, where all or most of the dialogue in the story is sung by the performers. And you'd probably also think a great work of art. But you probably never realize that operas we consider great today don't necessarily start out as masterpieces. Sometimes they only become recognized as great works later. A good example of just such an evolution from failure to success is the early twentieth-century opera Madama Butterfly by the Italian composer Giacomo Puccini.

(male student) Puccini's Madama Butterfly was considered a failure?

(professor) Hard to believe but true, the first performance of Madama Butterfly in Milan, Italy was a total bust, one of the great failures in the history of the stage. This was in 1904. Now, does anyone remember what I said about Italian opera fans in that era? Joe?

(male student) Well, you said opera was really popular that people even had favorite singers and composers and that audiences were kind of like some sports fans today, like when they were unhappy with the performance they'd boo and yell even call the performer names.

(female student) But they were also pretty loud when they liked an opera. They'd demand songs to be performed again or even for a whole scene to be repeated right then and there.

(professor) Right, they didn't really care about the continuity of the story. It was all about the performance. And in Milan, Puccini faced an especially daunting task. See, it seemed that opera audiences there were never satisfied, like, the audiences in Milan were critical of composers who didn't stick to opera conventions. At the same time, they also expected them to produce original works. On top of that, the Milanese weren't great Puccini fans to begin with. So it's almost as if they came to the opening night of Madama Butterfly ready to dislike it. And Madama Butterfly clearly lived up to audience's expectations or down to them. 

(male student) But what was so bad about it?

(professor) Well, there were real problems with the performance. See, Puccini typically revised his work continuously. So opening night came and changes were still being made to the music and libretto, the script of the story. Obviously this was incredibly hard on the performers and musicians. In addition, everything about the opera was being kept secret, which meant the performers couldn't take the music or libretti home to study or practice. The idea was that secrecy would help generate great interest and ensure the opera's success.

But, instead, the producers alienated the opera critics. See, normally the critics would have been invited to view the rehearsals. But, to help build anticipation for the performance, this wasn't allowed. So the critics got mad and then they got even by giving the opera bad reviews after opening night.

Another criticism was that one of the songs in the opera was too similar to a song in an earlier work by Puccini. Really only one line in one song was similar but that was enough to anger some audience members and leave them feeling that they had been short changed. They also complained because the opera didn't follow the traditional structure, the three-act format. But Puccini didn't feel bound by the usual conventions. He wanted to experiment with form so he wrote Madama Butterfly in two acts rather than in the traditional three.

(female student) Two acts? But I've seen Madama Butterfly and it has three acts.

(professor) Yes, and that was probably the most significant change Puccini made after the opening night.

(female student) You mean Puccini wrote a whole new act for the opera?

(professor) Not at all, see, the second act was quite long, so Puccini simply divided it into two acts. Now, when Madama Butterfly was performed for a second time three months later, a lot had changed. More time meant that the music and libretto were more polished that the performers were better prepared. The element of secrecy was no longer pertinent because the work had already been presented to the public. And now the opera was in three acts. Plus the opera was performed outside of Milan so the audience wasn't so antagonistic toward Puccini. These differences had enormous impact on the opera's subsequent success.
