Listen to a conversation between a student and his Physics professor

(man) Excuse me, Dr. Taylor
(woman) Hi, Jonathan, do we have an appointment?
(man) No, I just want to drop off my lab report. I know it's due this afternoon in class, but, I have a dentist appointment, so,
(woman) That's fine. Thanks for turning it in on time.
(man) You're welcome.
(woman) Oh, say, before you go, let me ask you something.
(man) Uh, sure, 
(woman) It's just, I've been noticing, and this isn't really important, but, the work book assignments you've been handing in don't look like they've been pulled out of the book. It looks like you're giving me photocopied pages. Actually, you not the only one, but I figure since you're here. Anyway, you know you could save yourself some trouble by just using the original pages. They're meant to be ripped out.
(man) Oh, I know. Uh, the thing is, I don't actually have a work book.
(woman) What do you mean?
(man) Well, the bookstore ran out of copies before I got there, but they sent in another order to the publishing company. The book should be here in a week or two.
(woman) But, the work book comes in a package with the textbook, you do have the textbook, don't you?
(man) Um, 
(woman) So what have you been doing for books?
(man) Uh, a bunch of us have been
(woman) A bunch of you? How many other students don't have books?
(man) Uh, I don't know. When I put my name on the waiting list at the bookstore, I was like the seventh or eighth on the list.
(woman) So, what have you been doing?
(man) Well, um, I've been borrowing other people's stuff and making copies of the pages I need or working from that copy that's on reserve in the library.
(woman) Why didn't anyone tell me?
(man) Um, well, it wasn't just your section. Actually, Linda and I are the only one in your section without the books. I guess we all thought it wasn't a big deal. I mean, this class is a requirement for all science majors so we just figured that someone didn't realize how many students would have to enroll. And they didn't order enough books. Anyway, it's not like the bookstore wouldn't place another order. We will get the books.
(woman) Yeah, but I always tell the department secretary to order a few extra copies for my section. And I thought the other professors did the same for their sections.
(man) It's OK, really. 
(woman) Oh, wait, that's right. There was another whole section added at the last minute. That's at least twenty more students and the books for that section would have been ordered late. Look, I'm really sorry. Anyway, let me call the bookstore right now. The staff there is very conscientious, but, I want to make sure that they know they need to follow up on this.