C1-Listening to a conversation between a student and a university housing representative

Student: Hi, I um, I was here this morning, I spoke to your assistant, to um, Laura, I guess it is, and she couldn‘t help me, so¡­

Housing Representative: So you thought you‘d come back and try your luck with me? If Laura couldn‘t help you, I‘m not sure I can, but, well, I can try. What seems to be the problem?

Student: Well, I made out really badly in the lottery for dorm rooms next year.

Housing Representative£ºI‘m sorry to hear that, but that‘s just the luck of the draw, you know? You get a random number and that determines when it‘s your turn to choose a dorm room. It‘s not a perfect system, but at least it‘s impartial.

Student: Well, here‘s the situation. OK. It‘s not just a bad number, it‘s a terrible number. I‘m almost at the bottom of the list. I think¡¡I get to pick a room like at the end of the third day when like the smallest darkest rooms will be the only ones left. You know, like the ones in Parker Hall. They‘rr really small, I really don‘t want to live in one of those.

Housing Representative: Yeah, those are usually the last to go.

Student: Well, my roommate, and I talked to him about this and he‘s totally cool with it, um, he drew a really great number.

Housing Representative: OK. You can still room with him, all you have to do is go up with him when it‘s his turn to choose and sign up to share a double room.

Student: Oh? I didn‘t know you could do that. I assumed¡­

Housing Representative: Isn‘t that where you were going?

Student: Actually no, but that might not be a bad idea. Actually, my idea was that, well, my roommate¡­

Housing Representative: The one who will probably get a very nice room?

Student£ºRight, his name is Gerald. Anyway, Gerald was working you know, got this great number, but then he changed his mind about the dorms and now he‘s planning on moving completely off campus next year. He‘s going to rent an apartment, so he said I could have his number, no problem.

Housing Representative: No, sorry, it doesn‘t work that way. I‘m sure Laura explained it to you. When people don‘t show up to select a dorm room when their turn comes up, we just move on to the next person. We can‘t give their number to someone else.

Student: Alright, hmm. But now I guess I‘m thinking maybe what about the other thing you mentioned? Like, rooming with someone who got a good number?

Housing Representative: That you can do. Most people go for single rooms, but you know, some people like roommates. Do you have someone in mind?

Student: Not yet, I mean, no one immediately comes to mind, but I think I‘m going to start asking around right away. And this is for double rooms only?

Housing Representative: Oh no, you can go for a triple or a quad. All you need in one guy with a really good number, and the rest you can tag along.
