

L2-Listen to part of a lecture in an art history class.

Teacher: We spend a lot of time concentrating on the artist. What was the painter trying to accomplish? Why did he or she choose a particular color? Those are important questions, but we shouldn‘t forget the social context in which artists work. That context, of course, includes where the money comes from. I mean, ok, what‘s the impetus these days for a painting to be made, and how is it sold usually? Anyone? Lisa.

Lisa: I guess the typical way is, um, an artist gets inspired to create a certain painting. Then when it‘s done, he or she sets a price, and, looks for a buyer through a website I guess, or a gallery or something?

Teacher: Right. But back in 15th century Italy, it was a different story. This period is known as The High Renaissance. Some of the most important artists in Europe were working in Florence at that time, and the relationship between artist and buyers was quite different than the scenario just described by Lisa. During The High Renaissance, buyers played a very active role in the initiation, specifications, almost all aspects of the artistic work. They specified what was to be painted, what should appear in the background, foreground, the colors. Yes, Lisa?

Lisa: But how do we know all this?

Teacher: How? We‘ve got hundreds of surviving documents from 15th century Florence. Written agreements between buyers and artists. There‘s no set format to them, but they all do appear to be contracts in which the buyer dictates the subject matter of the painting and sets the terms of payment. The contracts also address materials. Buyers actually stipulated what quantity of the most rare and expensive paints the artists would use, and in some cases, where on the canvas these colors would be applied and which paint would be applied to the frame. 

OK. And the two pigments mentioned most often in those documents are gold and ultramarine. Ultramarine was a very rare, very expensive blue pigment, and blue paint was a problem for European artists in the 15th century. Other blues were either pale or unstable, they tended to fade over time. But ultramarine was an unusually deep, vivid blue, a blue that resisted fading, especially the highest grade of ultramarine. So, the contract might say that the painter has to use this much gold, and that much of the highest grade ultramarine. 

But, if you look at these contracts over the course of the 15th century, you can see a change taking place. The early part of the century was a time of conspicuous displays of status. It was acceptable to flaunt your money if you had it, to dress in bright colors, to wear expensive jewelry, but as the century progressed, blatantly showing off how rich you were became less acceptable. It was considered in bad taste. Subtlety became fashionable. For instance, everyone started wearing black, for the wealthy wore clothes made from the best quality black cloth. 

And this same shift in values was reflected in the contracts between artists and buyers. Contracts from the second half of the 15th century placed less emphasis on gold and ultramarine, for example. And when you look at the paintings produced towards the end of the century, you do see less of these colors. In fact, more of the gold is found on the frame, not in the painting. What became more important was the skill of the artist, and the contracts provide evidence of this. And to understand how, you have to know something about the way renaissance artists worked. The most prominent artists, the master painters, all had assistance in their workshops.

Lisa: But if you‘re the buyer, how do you control how much of the painting is done by the master rather than the assistant?

Teacher: You‘d spell this out in the contract. As the century went on, more and more contracts specified the amount of time the master must spend on the painting. Buyers would demand that certain, like, the central figures must be rendered by the master painter. Whether this was carried out would be evident to the trained eye in the finished work. And, like I said, there was less talk about those precious materials in the contract, which probably made the artist happy. Now, I‘m not saying the paintings got any less expensive. Wealthy buyers were still able to show their wealth, but in different, less obvious ways.

