
C2-Listen to a conversation between a student and a professor. They are discussing a genre of play known as the well-made play.

Professor: Hi Jennifer. So, you pick something?

Student: Yes, I decided to go with Henrik Ibsen‘s play, A Doll‘s House

Professor: Good choice.

Student: And the ways in which it turns the conventions of the well-made play upside down.

Professor: Okay.

Student: So I thought I‘d start by talking, right, about the term well-made play was coined by the French playwright, Eugene Scribe who perfected the genre.

Professor: I would probably leave Eugene Scribe out of it. You don‘t need to go into the history of the term or all the nitty-gritty details of how the form developed in your paper.

Student: So I shouldn‘t define it?

Professor: Well, no, define it by all means, but don‘t include every detail. Defining a term and giving an account of its literary history and Eugene Scribe and all that, aren‘t exactly the same thing, but of course you have to list the conventions of the well-made play, how it‘s the conventional form.

Student: Okay, the important ones, like that it usually unfolds in a living room, and the audience knows more about what‘s going on in the story than the characters do? 

Professor: And don‘t forget that there‘s usually an important piece of evidence like a letter or a painting or something that‘s the key to a great secret or mystery. And then, you should point out how these conventions are used or not used by Ibsen in a Doll‘s house.

Student: Well, he uses almost all of them, doesn‘t he? The play does take place in a living room and things are very polite and proper as usual, at least, on the surface. And Nora does secretly borrow money behind her husband‘s back

Professor: Sure, and there‘s an incriminating letter, and on and on down the list. He really does pull out all the stops. In fact, this play is almost a textbook example of what a well-made play should be. Except¡­

Student: Except for the ending. Because instead of things working out at the end like they‘re supposed to, you know instead of a happy neat ending, everything falls apart. We‘re left with questions!

Professor: Precisely! When Nora dramatically storms out of her home and off the stage at the end of the play, it‘s as though the play suddenly stops being a well-made play.

Student: Yeah. To me, it‘s almost like she walks out of the play itself.

Professor: Ah, she abandons the play! That‘s interesting.

Student: Like she doesn‘t want to be a character in a well-made play, any more than she wants to be treated like a doll in a doll‘s house.

Professor: Clever reading. You know, you might want to see what other critics have said about his play. Then you can match you interpretation with theirs.

Student: Yeah, I don‘t think it‘s anything that Ibsen intended, but that idea came through for me

Professor: I‘m sure you know that Ibsen actually had to rewrite the original ending, the ending we know today, to get the play performed in some countries. The idea of the broken marriage was just too scandalous.

Student: I do remember reading that somewhere.

