1.Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information. A. The 1930s Dust Bowl was a revolutionary event that threatened to destroy United States agriculture by turning the Great Plains into a vast desert.B. The 1930s Dust Bowl in the United States resulted in radical changes in agricultural practices aimed at reducing wind erosion, such as the planting of tree shelterbelts. C. Tree shelterbelts, which are often used in the Great Plains area, are made up of trees that are planted in long rows beside agricultural fields.D. Of all the innovative techniques used to control wind erosion after the 1930s Dust Bowl, only tree shelterbelts proved effective. 2.The word hence in the passage is closest in meaning to A. ThereforeB. most importantlyC. to a large extent D. indirectly 3.According to paragraph 2, which of the following is true about strip croppingA.  It increases crop yields annually.B.  It forces farmers to plant crops that absorb less water and fewer nutrients from the soil.C.  It requires the use of shelterbelts.D.  It prevents wind erosion and allows moisture to collect on sections of land left unplanted. 4.According to paragraph 3, all of the following are practices involved in minimum tillage EXCEPT A. using mechanical devices to control weeds B. leaving unseeded soil undisturbed C. disturbing the soil only once where the seeds are inserted D. protecting against water and wind erosion by leaving parts of the soil covered with crop residues 5.The word implement in the passage is closest in meaning to A. reduce the cost of B. put into effect C. give consideration to D. improve 6.According to paragraph 4, why did the amount of no-till area increase between 1990 and 2000 in the United States A. More land area had become available for farming during this period. B. Fewer crops were needed since no-till farming had increased the soybean, wheat, and corn crop yields. C. Because conventional farming practices were too expensive, farmers decided to use the cheaper no-till conservation plan. D. The government provided financial support to farmers who practiced soil conservation. 7.Paragraph 4 suggests that all of the following were among the largest users of conservation tillage during the late 1990s EXCEPT A. Argentina B. EuropeC. Canada D. Brazil 8.What can be inferred from paragraphs 4 and 5 about soil conservation efforts in the United States A. Encouraging minimum tillage practices resulted in much more efficient soil conservation than converting erodible land into vegetative cover. B. Complete retirement of land combined with soil-conservation practices significantly reduced soil erosion. C. Measuring the success of government-supported conservation programs over extended periods of time was sometimes as difficult as getting the programs started. D. The reduction of energy use due to practices such as conservation tillage and land retirement was much larger in the United States than in any other country. 9.The word particularly in the passage is closest in meaning to A. Usually 
B. Obviously 
C. Especially 
D. currently 10.The word scarce in the passage is closest in meaning to A. short in supply B. more threatened C. more expensive D. less productive 11.In paragraph 6, the author refers to Tokyo, Japan, in order to A. explain why Japan is not likely to experience problems with soil erosion in the future B. provide evidence of the importance of maintaining cropland close to big cities C. point to an approach for reducing urban spread into croplands that has had positive results D. argue for the use of Japanese techniques to prevent erosion in the United States 12.Select the TWO answer choices that, according to paragraph 7, indicate true statements about Oregon. To obtain credit, you must select TWO answer choices. A. It planned and set long-term limits to urban growth. B. Its urban development within the city limits increased. C. Its surrounding farmland provided what the city needed to make it self-sufficient. D. It allowed each of its communities to deal with the commercial forces behind urban spread independently. 13.Drag your choices to the spaces where they belong. To review the passage, click on View Text.Answer Choices A. Terracing, probably one of the oldest methods for controlling soil erosion, led to the creation of the more sophisticated and more efficient conservation practices used in contemporary farming. B. After the 1930s Dust Bowl, the United States made significant changes to its agricultural practices, including the planting of tree shelterbelts and strip cropping. C. The United States has successfully instituted programs that encourage conservation tillage and the retirement of highly erodible land. D. The Conservation Reserve Program created in the United States in 1985 is gradually being adopted in other areas of the world such as Europe, Africa, and Asia. E. City governments in the United States and Japan developed conservation programs that encourage farmers near big cities to cultivate crops that minimize soil erosion. F. Saving cropland is sometimes difficult because it involves dealing with commercial forces, but some efforts like those in Tokyo and Oregon have been successful. 