1.According to paragraph 1, the results of full-scale climate models are questionable in part because A. the supercomputers used for such modeling are large and complex B. thousands of calculations have to be performed to assess conditions C. past conditions cannot always be estimated accurately D. there are multiple ways to represent the same aspect of climate 2.The word principally in the passage is closest in meaning to A. obviously 
B. apparently 
C. mainly 
D. originally 3.Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information. A. Iron may be one of the most important factors in controlling phytoplankton production in ocean waters that are rich in other nutrients. B. Results from a recent experiment suggest that several factors limiting phytoplankton production in ocean waters have gone unrecognized. C. Although it was not recognized until recently, nutrients are plentiful in areas of the ocean where iron controls phytoplankton production. D. Until recently, the importance of iron was not taken into account in experiments concerning phytoplankton production. 4.The word controversial in the passage is closest in meaning to A. Experimental B. Fascinating C. producing disagreement D. demonstrating poor judgment 5.The word induce in the passage is closest in meaning to A. supply nutrients to B. cause the formation of C. expand D. strengthen 6.According to paragraph 2, how might increasing phytoplankton growth help lower global temperatures A. By cooling the oceans B. By decreasing carbon dioxide levels in the ocean C. By reducing the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere D. By transporting heat from the ocean's surface to deeper levels 7.According to paragraph 3, which of the following reduces atmospheric carbon dioxide A. The weathering of limestone B. The production of limestone C. The recycling of carbon dioxide D. The presence of methane in gas hydrates 8.According to paragraph 3, why are gas hydrates a possible threat to the global climate A. If disturbed by offshore drilling, they can destroy limestone deposits. B. They can replace regular ice at certain locations. C. If melted, they may release a lot of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. D. They contain a lot of methane, which may be released as the ocean warms. 9.The word fuels in the passage is closest in meaning to A. provides energy for B. determines the route of C. carries D. breaks up 10.Which of the following is NOT mentioned in paragraph 4 as a way in which the ocean affects the climate A. It stores heat. B. It moves heat from the equator toward the poles. C. It speeds up wind circulation. D. It warms up the atmosphere. 11.Paragraph 4 suggests that a significant decrease in snow and ice fields at high latitudes would have what effect A. More clouds and water vapor would be produced in the atmosphere. B. More of the Sun's radiation would be absorbed by Earth. C. The oceans would cool more quickly. D. More precipitation would occur at low latitudes. 12.Why does the author mention that Most climate modeling grids fail to take into account common-sized cloud formations A. To suggest why the influence of clouds on climate change is still undetermined B. To explain why research on climate change does not focus on clouds C. To help explain why it is unclear whether aerosols have the effect of counteracting warming D. To explain in part why scientists are uncertain how much incoming radiation is absorbed or reflected 13.Drag your choices to the spaces where they belong. To review the passage, click on View Text . Answer Choices A. Estimates of future conditions are entered into supercomputers to calculate climate possibilities at various places on Earth. B. The ocean's capacity to absorb carbon dioxide remains great despite recent reductions of marine plant nutrients such as iron. C. Oceans absorb a great deal of carbon dioxide from the air through limestone production and the photosynthesis of phytoplankton. D. Ocean circulation is strongly controlled by wind and by the sea's balance of salt and heat. E. Gases are stored in the sea in the form of shells and hydrates, but gases stored in these ways can be recycled to the atmosphere where they may cause warming. F. The ocean holds and moves a great deal of heat, and as ocean water evaporates, it produces clouds, snow, and ice, which all affect global temperatures. 