12. What is the purpose of the lecture?
   A) To describe two types of symbiosis found among ocean animals
   B) To describe a useful property of a bacterium
   C) To explain how certain bacteria can transfer genes from animals to plants
   D) To explain how Vibrio fischeri glow in the dark

13. Why does the professor mention termite digestion and the synthesis of vitamin K in humans?
   A) To contrast two very different types of symbiosis
   B) To explain that symbiosis is not limited to sea creatures
   C) To stress how complex humans are compared to termites
   D) To emphasize that symbiotic relationships are quite common

14. How does the symbiotic relationship with Vibrio fischeri benefit the angler fish?
   A) It helps the angler fish to disguise itself from predators.
   B) It helps the angler fish to see in the dark.
   C) It helps the angler fish to attract prey.
   D) It helps the angler fish to digest food.

15. According to the professor, how does the bobtail squid avoid predators?
   A) It uses an internal organ to illuminate itself.
   B) It uses a symbiotic bacterium to change its color during the day.
   C) It only comes out on moonless nights.
   D) It stays in shallow areas where its predators cannot swim.

16. What is the connection between Vibrio fischeri and transgenic technology?
   A) Vibrio fischeir's ability to live in symbiosis with other creatures inspired transgenic technology.
   B) Transgenic technology makes it possible to study the symbiosis of Vibrio fischeri with other organisms.
   C) Genes from Vibrio fischeri were the first to be used in experiments using transgenic technology.
   D) Genes from Vibrio fischeri can confirm the success of experiments that use transgenic technology.

17. Why does the professor say this: 
   A) To remind students about a previous lecture about termites
   B) To indicate how important it is for researchers to work with microbes
   C) To reinforce the point she just made about symbiosis
   D) To draw the students' attention to a new topic
