6. What does the professor mainly discuss?
  A) Issues that make data about solar wind difficult to analyze
  B) Reasons why it is important to study solar wind
  C) A recent discovery about the Sun's corona
  D) A method used to represent large amounts of data about solar wind

7. According to the professor, what can result from a magnetic storm? [choose two answers]
  A) People can lose access to electricity.
  B) Temperatures on Earth's surface can increase temporarily.
  C) Earth's magnetic field can be permanently altered.
  D) The orbits of satellites can be disrupted.

8. What point does the professor make about scientific visualization?
  A) It is not well suited to representing complex data.
  B) It is a time-consuming way to depict astronomical data.
  C) It is particularly useful when depicting data about astronomical phenomena.
  D) It is the best tool for analyzing a large amount of information.

9. Why does the professor mention seismic data from volcanoes?
  A) To remind his students of something they discussed in a previous class
  B) To emphasize that the sonification of data has been done before
  C) To mention an instance when sonification was used incorrectly
  D) To give an example of a time when sonification allowed scientists to predict an event

10. According to the professor, how was the solar wind data sonified?
   A) By programming data about solar wind into a computer to generate new sounds
   B) By following an established set of rules used for sonifying data
   C) By assigning different musical sounds to three variables that affect solar wind
   D) By using clicking sounds to represent solar wind data captured by satellites

11. What is the professor's opinion of sonification?
   A) It will not be as useful as scientific visualization.
   B) It is helpful only when combined with other forms of data.
   C) It will probably lead to new discoveries in astronomy.
   D) It is likely to become a popular method for composing music.
