1.The word constituents in the passage is closest in meaning to A. Components B. Locations C. Size D. temperatures 2.According to paragraph 2, prehistorians disagree about which of the following A. Whether humans hunted animals themselves or ate meat from animals killed by other carnivores B. The number and kinds of animals humans ate C. Whether lions and other carnivores were hunted by humans D. Whether or not humans butchered animals to eat 3.Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information. A．Humans using stone tools to butcher animals left marks on the bones of the animals they killed and the animals they scavenged. B．Humans scavenged animals killed by other animals and butchered them using stone tools. C．Tool marks on butchered animal bones are analyzed to help determine whether humans killed or merely scavenged the animals. D．Analysis of the stone tools used by humans to butcher scavenged animals is now being carried out. 4.The word excavated in the passage is closest in meaning to A. dug from the ground B. concentrated in solid form C. deposited D. dried 5.According to paragraph 3, what is one reason that scientists use flotation A. To estimate the fluid content of ancient plants and seeds B. To identify the sediments in which ancient plants grew C. To learn about the climate of places where ancient plants grew D. To determine whether the remains of ancient plants and seeds have carbonized 6.According to paragraph 3, which of the following is true about carbonized plant remains A．Each fragment of carbonized plant remains contains sediments of a wide variety of plants. B．Carbonized plant remains are usually found near the remains of domesticated animals. C．Carbonized plant remains can be recovered by mixing sediments with fluid. D．Carbonized plant remains from an area are used to settle debates about the age of animal remains located in the same area. 7.According to paragraph 3, which of the following do archaeologists consider to be a strong indicator that an agricultural economy existed in a particular site A．An unusually high number of animal remains near the surface of the site B．Remains of domesticated plants in the teeth of animals C．High numbers of mineral particles inside carbonized plants D．Evidence of little vegetation change for long periods of time 8.According to paragraph 4, all of the following were true of some people in northern Chile around 1000 B.C. EXCEPT: A. They were divers. B. They chewed coca leaves. C. They had dental problems caused by eating food from marine resources. D. They ate plants grown on land. 9.The word characteristic in the passage is closest in meaning to A. Expected B. Typical  C. Suggestive D. destructive 10.The word alteration in the passage is closest in meaning to A. destruction B. preservation C. authenticity D. modification 11.The purpose of paragraph 6 is to A. answer questions about the equipment and techniques used in the Egyptian Delta area B. describe the earliest communities built on large, sand-and-gravel mounds C. explain how streams feeding the Nile River in the delta change course over time D. provide an example of a situation where complex geoarchaeological analyses and techniques are necessary 12.According to paragraph 6, what is one reason that complex geological analyses are needed for locating many of the earliest Nile River communities A. Flood waters can carry evidence of human habitation far from its place of origin. B. The streams associated with early communities have changed course over time. C. More recent communities have been built on top of ancient communities. D. The types of sediments carried by Nile floods have changed since ancient times. 13.Drag your choices to the spaces where they belong. To review the passage, click on View Text.Answer Choices A. Studying plant and animal remains can reveal details of ancient climates, food sources, and agricultural activities. B. Faunal analysis deals mainly with analyzing the tools ancient humans used for hunting and killing animals. C. Once identified, carbonized plant remains can help modern agriculturalists determine the most stable varieties of plants to grow. D. An examination of human remains can tell archaeologists about such things as the individual's diet and habits. E. To help understand the physical world of ancient communities, archaeologists may work with geologists and employ complex new techniques.F. Geoarchaeology, a growing field within archaeology, has proved to be more effective in explaining the alterations made to natural landscapes than in explaining how members of ancient communities lived.