1.Why does the author include the quotation in a city in which the inhabitants are in water up to their mouths, they often go thirsty A. To indicate that the French traveled to Venice frequently in the fifteenth century B. To illustrate the opinion of other Europeans about the water situation in Venice C. To suggest that the water supply problem of Venice continued well beyond the fifteenth century D. To emphasize how serious the water problem was in Venice 2.The word Henceforth in the passage is closest in meaning to A. Instead of this B. In addition C. From this time on D. In effect 3.The word obliged in the passage is closest in meaning to A. Forced  B. Allowed  C. Expected  D. persuaded 4.According to paragraph 2, why did the government place restrictions on dyers A. To protect the city's drinking water B. To prevent the lagoon from being polluted C. To keep canal water clean D. To discourage the use of blood and indigo for dyeing cloth 5.According to paragraph 2, how did dyers respond to the controls imposed by the government A. They switched from using dyes that let off bad odors or smells to new dyes that smelled much better. B. They resisted initially but eventually moved most of the dyeing operations outside the city center. C. They argued that the government did not consider common practice before imposing the controls. D. They started washing cloth and woolens dyed with blood and indigo in the lagoon. 6.It can be inferred from paragraph 3 that wells on the nearby coastal region A. were smaller in size than the cisterns located in the city B. served as a water source for the growing number of cisterns in the city C. increased in number as the population density increased D. provided enough water for only a relatively small number of people 7.According to paragraph 4, all of the following were true of Venice's system of cisterns and gorne EXCEPT: A. It was developed over several centuries. B. It collected rainwater. C. It was maintained with fees paid by the public. D. It reflected the social and economic diversity of the city of Venice. 8.The word launched in the passage is closest in meaning to A. paid for B. started C. proposed D. agreed on 9.According to paragraph 5, all of the following had an effect on cisterns in Venice from the thirteenth to the fifteenth century EXCEPT A. the construction of cisterns in other cities in Europe B. the establishment of programs to construct and repair cisterns C. the outbreak of bubonic plague D. the urbanization of an area at the edge of the city 10.The phrase this parallel source refers to A. flotillas of boats B. nearby rivers C. the cisterns D. an aqueduct 11.The word ensure in the passage is closest in meaning to A. improve B. increase C. control  D. guarantee 12.According to paragraph 6, how did public authorities respond to problems with the water supply during dry periods A. They sent boats to fetch fresh water from nearby rivers. B. They channeled river water into the cisterns. C. They constructed an aqueduct. D. They sold water from the cisterns in buckets to the public. 13.Drag your choices to the spaces where they belong. To review the passage, click on View Text.Answer Choices A. The water from the lagoon between Venice and the Mediterranean Sea could not be used for drinking because it was extremely polluted. B. By the early fourteenth century, the water in Venice's canals was becoming too polluted for household use, prompting the city council to prohibit the use of the canals by dyers and butchers. C. From the ninth to the fifteenth century, Venice developed a system to collect and store rainwater in cisterns for use by the population. D. By the fifteenth century, cisterns supplied by rainwater proved to be inadequate, but the cost of the projects proposed for a permanent solution was too high for the projects to be undertaken. E. Wealthy households were able to build their own cisterns, but everyone else had to use public cisterns located in the city's many squares. F. The expansion and repair of the cistern system was interrupted for much of the fourteenth century because of the bubonic plague, a situation that worsened the water supply problem. 