1.The word incited in the passage is closest in meaning to A. Allowed B. Stimulated C. Forced D. helped 2.According to paragraph 1, male t ̈2ngara frogs add chucks to the whine they produce when A. potential mates are unable to hear the frequency of their whine sounds B. other males produce louder whine sounds than they do C. the frogs breed in large pools rather than small ones D. other males are present in their breeding pool 3.What is the relationship of paragraph 2 in the passage to paragraph 1 A. Paragraph 2 provides additional support for a scientific hypothesis discussed in paragraph 1. B. Paragraph 2 questions the accuracy of a scientific observation discussed in paragraph 1. C. Paragraph 2 provides a possible explanation for a scientific observation discussed in paragraph 1. D. Paragraph 2 identifies some strengths and weaknesses of a scientific hypothesis discussed in paragraph 1. 4.According to paragraph 2, Ryan and Rand conducted an experiment to find out whether which of the following theories was true A. Male frogs in a chorus use a whine-chuck call in place of a whine call. B. Female frogs prefer a whine-chuck call to a simple whine call. C. Male frogs tend to produce more whine-chuck calls than whine calls. D. Female frogs respond differently to live calls from males than they do to recorded calls. 5.To be attracted to whine-chuck calls in preference to whine calls means A. to like whine-chuck calls instead of whine calls B. to like whine-chuck calls in addition to whine calls C. to like whine-chuck calls followed by whine calls D. to like whine-chuck calls more than whine calls 6.Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information. A. Males may save energy when competing for mates by using only whine-chuck calls rather than both whines and whine-chucks. B. Males expend as much of their energy on whine-chuck calls as on whine calls when competing with other males. C. Males save energy by using whine-chuck calls only when competing with other males. D. Males that save energy by using only whines are less able to compete with other males. 7.According to paragraph 4, all of the following are true of the playback experiments EXCEPT: A. Female frogs and predator bats approached the broadcasting speakers. B. The bats responded more strongly to the whine-chuck calls than they responded to the whine calls. C. Each speaker played a different kind of male frog call. D. The same experiment was repeated at different locations. 8.According to paragraph 4, the playback experiments of Ryan and Tuttle demonstrated which of the following A. T ̈2ngara frogs use both whines and whine-chucks in their vocalizations. B. Female t ̈2ngara frogs are attracted to both whine and whine-chuck vocalizations. C. Female t ̈2ngara frogs and predators of t ̈2ngara frogs are attracted to different types of vocalizations. D. Frog-eating bats are attracted to whine-chuck calls more than to whines alone. 9.The word substantial in the passage is closest in meaning to A. Average  B. Smaller  C. Considerable D. surprising 10.The word outweighs in the passage is closest in meaning to A. exceeds B. ignores  C. minimizes D. disguises 11.According to paragraph 5, all of the following are true about t ̈2ngara frog vocalizations EXCEPT: A. The larger the frog chorus, the smaller the chance there is of a particular frog being eaten by a predatory bat. B. The larger the frog chorus, the louder each individual frog calls. C. The smaller the frog chorus, the easier it is for a frog to attract a female. D. The smaller the frog chorus, the more likely it becomes that a frog using the whine-chuck vocalization will be attacked by a bat. 12.Which of the following can be inferred from paragraph 5 about the behavior of male t ̈2ngara frogs A. When in small choruses they use less effective mating calls to decrease their risk of predation. B. They avoid joining a large chorus in a breeding pool because it increases the risk of predation. C. They avoid the use of the whine-chuck call whenever there is the risk of predators. D. They attempt to avoid predation by making their calls at night. 13. Look at the four squares that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.Predation, therefore, is a risk in choruses of all sizes, but the risk varies depending on the type of call used.Where would the sentence best fit   Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage. 14.Drag your choices to the spaces where they belong. To review the passage, click on View Text.Answer Choices A. T ̈ ̈2ngara frogs generally use simple calls when they wish to attract a mate, and complex calls when they wish to avoid predation.B. Two hypotheses have been put forward about why females and frog-eating bats are more attracted to males using whine-chuck calls. C. The hypothesis that whine calls are used to save energy when males are not in immediate competition with each other has been disproved by showing that chuck calls do not require more energy. D. T ̈ ̈2ngara females overwhelmingly favor the whine-chuck call used by the males, but so do certain bats that prey upon t ̈2ngara frogs. E. Most males gather in groups of several hundreds when calling because the rate of predation from bats is so high in small groups. F. Male t ̈2ngara frogs use the whine-chuck call in large groups, where their risk of predation is lower, and the whine call in small groups, where their risk is higher. 