1. What is the main purpose of the lecture?
  A) To explore the role of art museums in contemporary society
  B) To critique the work of two innovative artists
  C) To explain the motivation behind a recent university event
  D) To present an unconventional way in which art can be created

2. What are two ways that people participated in Paul Ramirez Jonas' art in New York City? [choose two answers]
  A) They attended a ceremony that awarded a key to the city to a visiting official.
  B) They visited sites that could be unlocked by a key they received.
  C) They participated in a ceremony by awarding a key to someone.
  D) They helped construct a grassy square in the center of the city.

3. According to the professor, what are two common motivations behind an artist's decision to create participatory art? [choose two answers]
  A) To help inexperienced artists improve their techniques
  B) To encourage people to interact with one another in person
  C) To find a way to get the community more interested in museums
  D) To rebel against the influence of art museums

4. What is the professor's opinion of Marina Abramovic's work, The Artist Is Present?
  A) It changed the energy in the room in an effective way.
  B) It was an interesting way to think about the concept of time.
  C) It was disappointing to see the lack of effort the artist put into the piece.
  D) It would have been improved if visitors were allowed to talk.

5. Why does the professor mention TASK events?
  T) To demonstrate how art can be made from a variety of materials.
  B) To explain the participatory art event that the class will be involved in.
  C) To clarify that participatory art does not always involve a lot of people.
  D) To suggest a type of participatory art event that may be interesting for museum attendees.

6. What does the professor imply about participatory artists in general?
  A) They try to restrict the types of materials that they use in their artwork.
  B) They are open to unexpected outcomes as part of the artistic process.
  C) They are not taken seriously by art critics.
  D) They create art that clearly communicates a single message.