1. What does the professor mainly discuss?
  A) An example of the complexities of wildlife management
  B) A controversial proposal to reduce cormorant colonies
  C) Advantages and disadvantages of commercial fish farms
  D) The successful recovery of a coastal ecosystem

2. Why does the professor talk about South Dumpling Island?
  A) To point out where most cormorants lived during the 1800s
  B) To suggest a way to help cormorant populations recover
  C) To illustrate how some people are reacting to the presence of cormorants
  D) To indicate where wild fish populations are most threatened by cormorants

3. What does the professor point out when she discusses claims that cormorant populations are too large?
  A) Cormorants are useful in limiting the spread of invasive species of fish.
  B) The reported sizes of cormorant populations are not accurate.
  C) There are far fewer cormorants today than there were in the 1800s.
  D) Cormorant populations will eventually decrease even without human intervention.

4. According to the professor, what helped increase populations of double-crested cormorants? [choose three answers]
  A) Banning the pesticide DDT
  B) Creating protected areas for cormorant colonies
  C) Controlling predator populations
  D) Expansion of fish farming
  E) Limits on land development near migration routes

5. According to the professor, what attitude do some people have toward efforts to increase wildlife populations?
  A) They believe that current laws are adequate to support these efforts.
  B) They do not always like the overall results of these efforts.
  C) They accept the fact that conservation of wildlife can cause economic losses.
  D) They become frustrated with how slowly populations of endangered species recover.

6. What point does the professor emphasize about commercial fish farms?
  A) They are polluting nearby rivers and lakes.
  B) They are not necessary for the successful management of cormorant populations.
  C) Many are considered unattractive by people who live near them.
  D) Some are suffering financial losses as a result of predation by cormorants.