1. What is the main purpose of the lecture?
  A) To show that advances in technology are often the work of a single great thinker
  B) To discuss the events that led to the invention of the first ornithopter
  C) To show how imitating nature can both inspire and hamper advances in technology
  D) To argue that Leonardo da Vinci provided the first design for the modern airplane

2. According to Giovanni Borelli, what error did da Vinci make in his ornithopter design?
  A) He underestimated the power required for a person to fly with it.
  B) He designed it out of material too delicate to support a person.
  C) He gave the wings a very limited range of motion.
  D) He made the wings too small and the harness too large.

3. What does the professor imply about da Vinci's ornithopter?
  A) For about a hundred years, no one knew that it would not work.
  B) Few people attempted to build it before the seventeenth century.
  C) Its wings were not quite large enough to support a person.
  D) It was not the first, but it was the best ornithopter at that time.

4. According to the professor, what happened in ornithopter research after Borelli's report?
  A) Many researchers challenged the validity of Borelli's research.
  B) A researcher built a successful ornithopter using da Vinci's design.
  C) Researchers attempted to create a mechanically powered ornithopter.
  D) Most researchers gave up trying to build an ornithopter.

5. What does the student mention geese?
  A) To point out an important difference between birds and airplanes
  B) To suggest that birds have been valuable models for flight technology
  C) To explain why all modern airplanes have stationary wings
  D) To describe how airplane designs will change in the future

6. Why does the professor say this: 
  A) To elaborate on the statement made by the student
  B) To explain why she disagrees with the student's statement
  C) To raise a question about the student's statement
  D) To indicate that sufficient evidence does not exist to support the student's statement