Listen to a conversation between a student and an English professor

(woman) Thanks for coming by Andrew, how have you been?
(man) Pretty good, thanks, 
(woman) You know, the papers you wrote for my literature class last term were really great, so I was wondering, um, a lot of students at this university need to improve their writing skills, so we offer a tutoring program for them. But about a third of our tutors are graduating in May and we need to fill their positions, any interest?
(man) Maybe, what will I do exactly?
(woman) You'd help students improve their papers. 
(man) Um, but I am not an English major. I took your course to fill a requirement. I major in Biology. I want to be a biologist and work in a lab someday.
(woman) Oh, don't worry about your major. I sought you out because we need tutors from various disciplines, like, one of the students needed help writing his biology paper. You'd be an ideal fit.
(man) But, wouldn't I need special training or something since I'm not majoring in English?
(woman) Yes, all our tutors take a training course first and the credit hour you earn for that it counts toward your graduation requirement.
(man) Really? So what's the course like?
(woman) It's a weekly class and you also get a mentor someone who's been tutoring for a while. You have to observe some of the mentor's tutoring sessions. And once you've completed the classroom part, you're allowed to tutor on your own. Oh, and the professor who teaches the course, she observes your first tutoring session and gives you feedback and some coaching if you need it.
(man) Wow, that seems like a lot of work. I thought you just needed to know how to do something well in order to teach it.
(woman) Some people might think that, but there are many different ways to teach. For example, you can just give out information or you can ask questions to lead someone to a certain conclusion. Just earlier today, I was helping one of my students with an essay, he had some great ideas but they weren't well organized. I had, at least, two options: I could have told him how to organize the essay or, well, what else could I have done?
(man) I guess ask him how the information fit together or have him suggest a better way of presenting his information.
(woman) Good, that's what I'm talking about. In this case, my student didn't even realize how disorganized his paper was. Once I pointed this out, just in a general sense, he realized the problem and was able to fix it, pretty much on his own. So, as you can see, helping someone write better isn't always as simple as it sounds. Being a tutor takes more than just knowing how to write well.
(man) Hmm, you know, I think I'd enjoy tutoring. But, I mean, I wonder how receptive the students are, I mean, to getting guidance from a peer basically instead of a professor or a graduate student?
(woman) Um, do you know Susan Griffith? 
(man) Yeah, she was in my literature class last year.
(woman) Well, Susan started tutoring last term and wants to continue next year as well. I think she's in the English Department library right now if you want to catch her