Listen to part of a lecture in a Psychology class

(female professor) So we were talking about how psychologists study creativity. Well, it's such a broad area, so let's narrow it down. A researcher named Charles Limb, that's L, I, M, B. recently designed an experiment dealing with creativity and music. Of course, there're different approaches to playing music, uh, reading from printed sheet music, uh, playing something you've memorized, et cetera. Limb predicted that the brain acts differently depending on what the musician is doing. And if you're going to design an experiment about musical creativity, well, uh, Limb's idea was that the act of improvisation is about creative as you can get.

Improvisation happens a lot in Jazz. A jazz musician will have a certain melody in mind and will improvise, or create variations on that melody on the spot. It's like, well, here I am talking to you right now, it's not like I'm standing here reciting a poem or reading from a script. I know the theme I want to talk about and I know the facts but every sentence I say is made up in the moment.

OK, one technique psychologists have for watching the brain at work is to monitor blood flow to different parts of the brain. The reasoning is that the most blood will flow to the parts of the brain that's working the hardest. To monitor this, we use functional magnetic resonance imaging or FMRI machines. Limb used this technique in his experiment. An FMRI scanner generates images of the brain while it's working on a task. But, and this was the toughest thing to deal with, since FMRI machines are noisy, it was hard to design an experiment that involved playing music because the musicians needed to hear themselves play.

Electronic instruments and headphones would seem like an obvious answer, but normal electronic keyboards would have interfered with the magnetic waves from the scanner. The solution turned out to be a non-magnetic keyboard and headphones with no metal parts. So they selected six professional jazz piano players and used FMRI to scan their brains while they were playing memorized material, and then while they were improvising.

Now, as they analyzed these images of blood flow, they were particularly interested in the area of the brain right behind the forehead known as the prefrontal cortex. Past research has shown a connection between that region and the creative process. And when the musicians were playing memorized music, the part of the prefrontal cortex known as the lateral prefrontal cortex was active.

The lateral prefrontal cortex is associated with motor control, self-monitoring and focused attention which makes sense. The musicians were using these skills to carefully concentrate and play something they previously memorized. Now, when the musicians started to improvise, some changes took place. First of all, the area of the prefrontal cortex that became the most active was the medial prefrontal cortex.

And this was not surprising, the medial prefrontal cortex is known to be associated with behaviors that are self-motivated and creative as opposed to reacting to outside stimuli or following rules. Um, when someone was talking about events in their own life, the medial prefrontal cortex is active. And so it makes sense because when someone is improvising they are sort of telling a musical story that is uniquely theirs.

But there was another result that they didn't expect: while the musicians were improvising and the medial prefrontal cortex was really active, the lateral prefrontal cortex slowed down. It slowed way down. It was essentially deactivated. OK. Let's just hold on there a minute. According to the researchers, it could be that in order for creativity to thrive, the lateral prefrontal cortex needs to stop doing the thing it does so well, which is to control thoughts, follow the rules, right?

The lateral prefrontal cortex is like a dam on a river, which generates electricity by allowing a small, controlled amount of water to pass through the turbines. Well, for a person to be creative, the dam needs to open up and release all the water. Creativity depends on unimpeded random thoughts, thoughts flowing freely, unrestricted. In other words, when it comes to creativity, maybe what the brain doesn't do is as important as what it does.