Listen to a conversation between a student and his Astronomy professor

(woman) James, I wasn't expecting you until tomorrow, unless I put it down wrong in my calendar.
(man) No, my appointment to go over my research paper is tomorrow. But I wanted to ask you about something and I was over this way anyway.
(woman) OK?
(man) Well, I was reading some popular science stuff in the internet yesterday. I follow this blog and there was this piece about, um, this celestial object called Cruithne. Cruithne, I guess it's pronounced that way cause it's a Celtic name. Anyway, the blog entry said it was really small, only about five kilometers in diameter but it called it Earth's second moon?
(woman) Ah, yes, Cruithne, coming in, have a seat. It's actually an asteroid in the inner solar system, meaning it orbits the Sun not the Earth. But since it's near Earth, and it revolves around the Sun at almost the same rate Earth does, uh, Earth's orbit takes just a bit longer, Cruithne is sometimes referred to as Earth's second moon. That's not technically accurate, though.
(man) I thought it sounded too small to be a moon.
(woman) Um, some moons can be quite small, even just a few meters in diameter. But what it comes down to is whether they orbit a planet or not.
(man) A few meters! 
(woman) But usually such tiny moons didn't form near their host planet. They're originally asteroids like Cruithne. The majority of their lives they orbit the Sun directly. Often they don't have smooth regular orbits like Earth does. They tend to follow long irregular paths looping around in funny directions, but, ultimately, completing orbits around the Sun. Cruithne's orbit is a regular tube by the way.
(man) Yeah, I remember reading that.
(woman) But, from time to time, these objects get captured, pulled into orbit by a planet's gravity.
(man) So, then they start to orbit that planet.
(woman) Right, but usually only temporarily, sometimes for just a few months, during that time they're considered a moon, or, at least, a mini-moon. But, ultimately, for various reasons, they break free from the planet's gravity and begin orbiting the Sun directly again. And then they're classified as asteroids again, even though nothing about the objects themselves has really changed, just their orbit.
(man) We just start referring to them as asteroids again.
(woman) It's all in the name. I'm surprise that a Web site like a science blog didn't present Cruithne with some of that context.
(man) Well, the blogger who wrote about it admits in his profile that he's just an amateur scientist and I like reading his posts, especially about science topics in the news and stuff.
(woman) Well, maybe for recreational reading, for keeping up on popular topics. Of course for research papers or any other academic work, you'd want to be sure you're using reliable sources, reputable publications like academic journals and such.
(man) So for my next research paper don't write about Earth's second moon?
(woman) Great plan! But what you just turned in was quite good, by the way. I actually have a few minutes until my next meeting. Since you're here, do you want to go ahead and go over?