Listen to part of a lecture in a Biology class

(female professor) OK, when we think of animals communicating with one another, we typically think of communication among individuals of the same species, communication among individuals of a certain species of whales, for example. But it's not always that simple. For example, picture this: you're out in the wild bird-watching, studying a particular species of bird. In particular, you're studying the calls, the vocalizations used by individuals of the species to communicate with one another.

OK, now think about your role in this communication. You're listening to the bird calls, but the calls aren't meant for you. They are not even meant for your species. You're just listening in, eavesdropping. Well, it turns out that some kinds of animals do something similar, that is, they eavesdrop on communications among individuals of other animal species. For example, a while back a researcher conducted an experiment that investigated how, well, if really, if and how a certain kind of squirrel, the red squirrel, reacted to the alarm calls of a certain kind of bird, a particular species of jay.

By alarm calls we mean the vocalizations birds use to warn each other of danger. Uh, this study was pretty different at the time, because although researchers had often looked at alarm calls, they'd rarely looked at the interactions between birds and mammals. OK, anyway, uh, the red squirrels and the jays in this study had many of the same predators. So the researcher thought the squirrels might listen for these jays' alarm calls and if they heard a call, they'd know that a predator was near and they'd take action to protect themselves.

And the way the researcher tested this hypothesis was he had recordings of jay alarm calls. And he played the recordings while the squirrels were feeding and he videoed the squirrels' reactions. He then measured the squirrels' anti-predator behavior, the degree to which the squirrels were guarding against being attacked by a predator. He measured this by counting the quick head and body movements of the squirrels and also by timing the interruptions in the squirrels' feeding. How long the squirrel stopped chewing to watch and listen essentially?

And he found that the squirrels were listening for these jay alarm calls and that when they heard an alarm call, they did take action to protect themselves from predators. Many of the squirrels even fled from the area where they'd been feeding. Uh, and to make sure that it was the jay's alarm calls the squirrels were responding to, the researcher also played recordings of normal territorial songs from various other kinds of birds. And those songs got basically no response. So there was definitely purposeful eavesdropping going on there.

Um, and another somewhat similar experiment was done with gray squirrels and jays. In this experiment the squirrels and the jays living nearby ate a lot of the same foods. And when the squirrels stored food for the winter, the jays would often come by later and steal it. So how eavesdropping comes in is the researcher hypothesize that the squirrels might listen for the presence of jays nearby. And when they detected it, they wouldn't put as much time or effort into foraging for food and storing food, since whatever food they found and stored would likely be stolen later by any jays that had been watching.

To test this hypothesis, the researchers got some hazelnuts, a kind of nut eaten by both squirrels and jays and buried them under a little gravel where the squirrels could find them. The researchers then played recordings not of jay alarm calls but of jay songs and observed how the songs affected the squirrel's behavior. And they found that compared to the trials when the presence of jays wasn't simulated, squirrels who heard jay songs gave up more quickly on gathering and storing the nuts. Again, the songs of other birds had no effect. So the researchers knew it was specifically the jay songs that the squirrels were listening for.

You know, what's interesting is the study suggests that when these jays sing around these gray squirrels, the end result is that there is less food available for the jays to steal, which makes it harder for them to survive. So, I think it's quite likely that over time the jay's communication system will somehow evolve so that they stop disadvantaging themselves in this way.