Listen to part of a lecture in an Art History class

(male professor) It's interesting to notice that in the seventeenth century, uh, that there, that at this time there was a significant increase in paintings showing contemporary women as artists. Some of these were self-portraits painted by the women themselves. Many were not. In the Netherlands, there was even a new development of genre pictures and their subject was women working as artists. 

So in Europe you could tell that times have changed, uh, woman's role in society had changed. The idea of the woman artist no longer seems so strange. Um, now, how did these women get to be artists? What was their training? Training, of course, is crucial for a painter but women didn't have access to art academies back then, so, from your reading, what, uh, what do you know about how these woman painters learn to make art?

(female student) Most of the women learned painting in something like, uh, a family workshop. They had a relative, like, their father who was an artist.

(professor) It would have been useful to have another hand to work on paintings if they had a busy workshop. Most women artists learned that way through the family trade, so, fathers taught daughters and it wasn't uncommon that they would then teach their own daughters years later. It usually didn't go outside the family, I mean, women couldn't, society said women couldn't go and work for an artist who wasn't a family member the way men could. Their options were more limited.

(male student) But we read about a woman who did work for another artist, uh, someone outside her family.

(female student) Yes, yes, Judith Leyster

(professor) Right, Judith Leyster probably worked as an apprentice for an artist in the Netherlands who had taught his own daughter to paint. Leyster's father was not an artist. It's thought that she, well, her parents might have wanted her to study with that artist because his artist daughter would have been a good companion for her. Uh, anyway, Leyster must have studied for three years and been an apprentice for at least one year since these were the requirements for joining a guild.

Now, a guild is an organization of people engaged in the same business, for example, merchants were members of merchant guilds, craft people members of craft guilds, kind of like the unions today. We know that Leyster was the first woman to join one of the Dutch artist's guilds. Eventually, she ran her own workshop and she became known for her paintings of women in their homes, uh, domestic scenes. Now, in the seventeenth century, most of these women painters were amateurs, which means they took no money. But there were a few who became professionals. One of these was, uh, was Mary Beale.

Beale had an unusual education. She probably learned some from her father. He was an amateur painter and she was associated with several male artists, some of them friends of her father who were like mentors and gave her instructions. But I guess that wasn't enough in order to learn, uh, to keep up with artistic developments and new painting techniques. At one time, she and her husband commissioned portraits from a prominent painter just so she could watch him paint. Beale painted portraits of people in her social circle and later set up a portrait studio in her house in London. And when her husband lost his government job he worked as a manager in her studio. 

(male student) I thought it was interesting that Mary Beale earned more money for her family than her husband did.

(professor) In one of her most successful years, she had commissions to paint eighty three paintings. And if she was hired to do that many paintings, she would have been earning a large amount of money.

OK, so with artists like Leyster and Beale and there were more in other countries, you begin to see how a tradition of women artists got established. By the end of the seventeenth century, women could point to a line of woman artists. Now let's look at some examples, uh, paintings by some of these woman artists and discuss their styles and how their range of subject matter changed over time.