Professor: The papers you wrote for my literature class last term were really great, so I was wondering¡­um¡­a lot of students at this university need to improve their writing skills, so we offer a tutoring program for them. But about a third of our tutors are graduating in May and we need to fill their positions. Any interest?
Student: Maybe. What would I do exactly?
Professor: You‘d help students improve their papers.
Student: Um...but I‘m not an English major. I took your course to fill a requirement. I‘m majoring in biology. I want to be a biologist and work in a lab someday.
Professor: Oh don't worry about your major. I sought you out because we need tutors from various disciplines. Like what if a student needed help writing his biology paper? You‘d be an ideal fit.
Student: But wouldn't I need special training or something since I‘m not majoring in English? 
Professor: Yes. All our tutors take a training course first and the credit hour you earn for that, it counts towards your graduation requirement
Student: Really? So what‘s the course like?
Professor: It's a week long and you also get a mentor, um, someone who has been tutoring for a while. You have to observe some of the mentors tutoring sessions and once you've completed the classroom part you are allowed to tutor on your own. Oh, and the professor who teaches the course, she observes your first tutoring session and gives you feedback and some coaching if you need it.
Student: Wow that seems like a lot of work. I thought you just needed to know how to do something well in order to teach it.
Professor: Some people might think that but there are many different ways to teach. For example, you can just give out information or you can ask questions to lead someone to a certain conclusion. Just earlier today I was helping one of my students with an essay. He had some great ideas but they weren‘t well organized. I had at least two options. I could have told him how to organize the essay or¡­well, what else could I have done?
Student: I guess ask him how the information fit together, or have him suggest a better way of presenting the information.
Professor: Good, that's what I‘m talking about. In this case my student didn't even realize how disorganized his paper was. Once I pointed this out, just in a general sense, he realized the problem and was able to fix it, pretty much on his own. So as you can see, helping someone write better isn‘t always as simple as it sounds. Being a tutor takes more than just knowing how to write well. 
Student: Hm. You know, I think I‘d enjoy tutoring. But I mean, I wonder how receptive the students are. I mean, to getting guidance from a peer, basically, instead of a professor or graduate student.
Professor: Um, do you know Susan Griffith?
Student: Yea, she was in my literature class last year.
Professor: Well Susan started tutoring last term and wants to continue next year as well. I think she‘s in the English department library right now if you want to catch her.
Why does the professor ask to see the man?

Why does the man mention that he is biology major?

According to the professor, what must a student do in order to become a writing tutor?

What does the professor imply about Susan Griffith?

Listen again to part of the conversation. Then answer the question.
Student: I thought you just needed to know how to do something well in order to teach it.
Professor: Some people might think that
Why does the professor say this: "Some people might think that"?
