Listen to part of a lecture in an Archeology class. The professor has been discussing the Anasazi, a native people of North America

(female professor) The Anasazi, as we've said, during the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, lived in a region where the states of Utah, Arizona, Colorado and New Mexico meet today, known as the Four Corners region.

We know a fair amount about how they lived during this time, what corps they farmed and so on. What we don't know is what happened at the end of the thirteenth century that caused them to completely abandon their settlements in the Four Corners region. So, first of all, where did they go? Now, the conventional wisdom, the theory is that when the Anasazi left the Four Corners region they moved south to a site called Pinnacle Ruin in what is now southern New Mexico.

And there's good evidence to support that theory. To begin with, the Pinnacle Ruin site sits at the top of a cliff which is very similar to the cliff-top locations of Anasazi communities in the Four Corners region. Also, the ruins of buildings at Pinnacle Ruin have thick stone walls which are typical for more northern regions. And we found a large amount of pottery with black-on-write designs, again, very similar to those made by the Anasazi in the Four Corners settlements. And we know it was occupied within a decade or two of the 1300s which corresponds to when the Anasazi disappeared from the north.

But why did the Anasazi leave the Four Corners in the first place? Here we are less certain. The Four Corners is an arid region. So droughts probably depleted their resources. And we see evidence of this in the size of the rings in the wooden logs that were used to make the roof beams in Anasazi houses. The rings in the center of a tree limb allow us to determine its age, right? Well, they also tell us about climate because trees grow at different rates depending upon the amount of water and nutrients they receive each season. And we can see that there was very little rainfall in the late thirteenth century. And that explanation, that what drove the Anasazi southward was drought, that's been the conventional wisdom for quite some time.

Not too long ago, however, an archeologist named Jeffrey Dean found a complication in the tree ring data. What Dean found is that while precipitation in the Four Corners had been consistent for several centuries before 1250 it had fluctuated wildly between 1250 and 1450. So while there may have been drought years during that period, Jeffrey Dean said, "They seemed to have interspersed with years when there was rainfall." So that's one possible glitch in the prevailing theory.

But there's another issue: even if there was a long drought, would that have been enough to force the Anasazi to leave? That's the question that a researcher named Carla Van West investigated a few years before Dean did his climate study. Van West created a model in which she first calculated the productivity of the Anasazi's corn fields under normal conditions. She then used climate data to determine the effect that drought would have had on the Anasazi's crop yields. She was able to estimate the maximum annual crop yield for a given area and what proportion of an individual's diet would have come from the crops.

All of this data led to her conclusion that a thirteen-century drought would still have left enough productive land to support thousands of people. So it couldn't have been the only factor involved in why the Anasazi left. What else could have been involved? Well, there's evidence that in addition to difficulties caused by the climate, other people may have moved into the Four Corners area and forced the Anasazi out. You see, the settlement at Pinnacle Ruin appears to have been built all at once as if an entire large group of people settled there at the same time rather than individual families moving there over a period of time. And since the drought, while significant, probably wasn't enough to cause this massive migration. There must have been some additional factor that's not as easy to read in historical evidence.