Listen to part of a lecture in a Biology class

(female professor) Now, it might seem strange, but even though many organisms live in the sea, salt water remains a challenging environment for them. It can be difficult for marine organisms to stay hydrated, that is, keep the water content of their bodily fluids within a healthy range. Every animal loses some water over time and, sooner or later, has to replenish it. Drinking seawater to replenish the water content creates a physiological challenge, because by drinking seawater the animal is taking in a lot of salt. And getting salt out of the body is not easy.

(male student) Isn't that what their, uh, salt gland is for?

(professor) That's the main mechanism used by, at least, some marine animals like penguins and marine turtles. The special thing about the salt gland is that it secretes the salt in a very concentrated form so there is very little water loss and the animal stays hydrated. Animals that live in the desert, like lizards, they also have salt glands. It's the opposite of the case for most land animals. Most land animals excrete salt in a very diluted form, which means much greater water loss. But, let's take a look at the sea snake.

Now, there are about sixty species of sea snakes. They live in tropical oceans, mostly along coast lines and around islands in the Indian and western Pacific Oceans. And, as I said, we used to think that sea snakes simply drank seawater and got rid of the excess salt through their salt glands. But, then, one researcher heard about instances of, he became interested in reports of sea snakes being observed on shore drinking freshwater after it rained. So, he started probing deeper. Why would they drink freshwater, he wondered, if they could easily stay hydrated by drinking seawater?

(female student) So, sea snakes don't have salt glands?

(professor) Well, they do, under their tongue. But it appears that the glands may not be sufficient, or should I say efficient enough to allow the snakes to drink seawater for hydration. Anyway, the researcher wound up taking a group of dehydrated snakes and submerging them in a tank with saltwater. After several hours, he took them out and weighed them to see if they'd gained weight, if they had drunk any of the water. None of them had. He then took the same snakes and put them in a tank of freshwater. All of the snakes immediately began to drink the water. This suggests that although sea snakes have made many adaptations to life in the ocean, drinking seawater is not one of them. They can't drink saltwater. They actually need freshwater to stay hydrated.

(female student) You said adaptations. Does this mean sea snakes evolve from land snakes?

(professor) We think they did as did many other marine animals. They appear to be closely related to cobras and coral snakes. And some species of sea snakes also come ashore to lay their eggs.

(male student) But they are sea snakes.

(professor) Well, there are some species that do live their entire life at sea, which poses an interesting question: How do they get freshwater? Well, the hypothesis that's been proposed, it involves something called a freshwater lens. A freshwater lens forms when it rains over the ocean. You see, when rain falls on the ocean, the rainwater doesn't mix with the saltwater right away. Since freshwater is not as dense as saltwater, it stays on top of the sea, forming a temporary layer of freshwater. These temporary pools of water are called freshwater lenses. After a while, the waves and the currents mix the freshwater pools in with seawater and they disappear. But while they last, the snakes can use the lenses as sources of drinking water.

And if we consider the distribution pattern of sea snake populations, this makes sense. It turns out that sea snakes that live solely in the water do tend to concentrate in areas where the sea surface is calm, where freshwater lenses would last the longest. In contrast, very few sea snakes are found in areas where the sea is choppy, where rainwater would get mixed in with seawater more quickly.
