#article
New Membership Requirement for Student Clubs

University spokesperson Diana Cates announced yesterday that student clubs must now have at least ten members in order to receive funding from the university. Said Cates, “The university cannot justify spending money or providing facilities for such a small number of students.” Regarding the new membership requirement, Cates also added, “The university feels that clubs with fewer than ten members tend not to last very long, and so we feel these clubs don’t offer much benefit for students.”

#record
Now listen to two students discussing the article

(woman) Hey, Robert, did you read that article about the clubs?
(man) Yeah
(woman) I can’t believe they’re gonna do this.
(man) Would your hiking group be affected?
(woman) Yeah, it’s gonna be difficult for us to continue.
(man) Oh, I’m sorry to hear that.
(woman) Yeah, and the reasons they give for doing it just don’t make sense. I mean, the university doesn’t that much on clubs like ours, you know, they give us enough to pay for the admission fees to the parks where we go hiking, but that’s it!
(man) So they’re not gonna save huge amount of money.
(woman) Right! And what they spend on us is nothing compared to what they spend on other things. I mean, I’m sure they spend a lot more on bigger clubs.
(man) Yeah, I’m sure. But, you know, I think they might have a point about what happens when there’re only a few people.
(woman) Well, maybe in some cases, but we’ve been together for years now. And, anyway, you don’t have to be together for a long time to benefit from it. 
(man) How do you mean?
(woman) Well, even in a short period of time, you’re gonna meet and get to know people you wouldn’t have met otherwise, people with similar interests and that can lead to really strong friendships, lifelong connections that can help you later on, in your business or your profession.

#question
The woman expresses her opinion about the new requirement described in the article. Briefly summarize the requirement. Then state her opinion and explain the reasons she gives for holding that opinion.
