#article
Facilitators

When a particular habitat is damaged by a natural event, the various species that live there may die off or leave the area. After such an event, the earliest species to inhabit this damaged area may take it possible for other species to live in the area later. These first species facilitate or enable the arrival of other species; thus, they are called facilitators. Facilitators may have special features that allow them to live in an environment that has been made unsuitable for other species to survive in. Once established, facilitators change the area, and other species can once again survive there.

#record
Now listen to part of a lecture on this topic from a Biology class

(male professor) OK, let's look at an example. So, in the ocean, you can usually find plants living on large underwater rocks, right? But, uh, sometimes there’re gonna be a particularly big storm which tears the plants off the rocks. And then once the rocks are completely exposed, it's difficult for plants to grow there again, because the bare surface of the rocks is slippery. And with rough ocean water fast moving waves that beat again the rocks, it's hard for new plants to attach to the rocks.

But researchers have found that certain organisms are actually able to attach to these fully exposed rocks like brown algae. Brown algae are able to attach to the bare slippery surface because they have a strong root-like structure that really sticks well to the rocks and holds the algae in place despite the rough ocean water, and once brown algae are growing on the rocks, well, then this situation changes. The rocks are now covered and no longer slippery. Now, other plants, such as ocean grasses, can start growing on the rocks. These grasses can only move in once brown algae have begun to grow on the rocks, because they need a place, a less slippery place on the rock surface to attach the seeds to so that the seeds can start growing into mature plants.


#question
Explain how the example from the lecture illustrates the concept of facilitators.

