#record
Listen to part of a lecture in a Business class

(female professor) Businesses that produce goods and services all depend upon specific resources to build and maintain their business. These resources are considered the basic elements of business’ needs to produce product. Two resources that all businesses require are capital and labor. And even though both are important to the development and success of any business, companies tend to rely more heavily on one or the other. 

So, some types of businesses tend to be what we call capital-intensive. This means simply that the kind of resource that the development of this business needs in order to get up and running is money; companies that require large amounts of expensive equipment or raw materials in order to make their products need a lot of capital to purchase those materials. Capital-intensive companies tend to be, but aren’t limited to, manufacturing companies. People who want to start these kinds of businesses need to consider the challenge of raising large amounts of capital. Starting a new automobile company, for example, would be extremely difficult, since it will cost millions of dollars to purchase the machines and materials needed to begin producing cars.

Then, on the other hand, some businesses rely mainly on labor. If the money needed for labor, the amount of money needed to pay all of the workers, if that far outweighs the cost of the equipment and raw materials, the capital costs, the business is said to be labor-intensive. Labor-intensive companies require far less capital investment up front and rely mainly on the skills of the workers they employ for the development and success of their business. The most common type of labor-intensive businesses are in the service industry. A restaurant is a good example. After some initial investment for equipment and furnishings, the major costs to keep a restaurant running on a day-to-day basis are the workers, the salaries for waiters, chefs that would be the primary expenditure for the business.

#question
Using points and examples from the lecture, explain the roles of capital and labor in business development.


