1.The word inevitable in the passage is closest in meaning to A. Continuous B. Obvious C. Certain D. easy 2.Which of the following is NOT mentioned in paragraph 2 as a cause of constant change to Earth's crust A. Water B. Igneous processes C. Metamorphic processes D. Meteorites 3.The word accordingly in the passage is closest in meaning to A. Correspondingly  B. Frequently  C. Interestingly  D. informally 4.Which of the following can be inferred from paragraph 3 about meteorites A. Their composition can help determine the part of the larger body from which they broke off. B. They are difficult to distinguish from rocks in Earth's mantle. C. Their collisions with Earth have become more frequent than in the past. D. They are older than the rest of the solar system. 5.According to paragraph 3, which of the following is a characteristic of asteroids A. They are the largest meteors. B. They are made mostly of iron and other metals. C. They often collide with Earth. D. They are the oldest meteors. 6.Which of the following can be inferred from paragraph 4 about the radiometric dating of meteorites A. Scientists tried several different radiometric systems before finding one that worked. B. The radiometric dating of different meteorites produced similar results. C. Many meteorites were damaged by the radiometric dating. D. Radiometric dating was not as accurate as scientists expected. 7.The word cluster in the passage is closest in meaning to A. Approach   B. Spread  C. Group  D. vary 8.According to paragraph 4, why are scientists confident that the age of the oldest meteorites they studied is also the age of the solar system A. Radiometric dating has been proven to be reliable. B. The oldest rocks found on the surface of the Moon are the same age as the meteorites. C. No meteorites have been found that are younger than 4.6 billion years old. D. Meteorites on the Moon are the same age as those on other planets. 9.The word enormous in the passage is closest in meaning to A.Expanding B.very bright C.distantD.huge 10.Why does the author refer to inflating a balloon with small coins attached to its surface A. To help explain how the universe can expand while the galaxies remain the same size B. To imply that the universe must eventually stop expanding C. To support the statement that most stars are found in disk-shaped galaxies D. To help explain how the universe began as a single point of dense matter11.According to paragraph 6, how did astronomers learn that the universe is expanding A. By measuring the distance between galaxies B. By observing the movement of stars within galaxies C. By studying the wavelengths of light from distant galaxies D. By comparing the sizes of different galaxies 12. Look at the four squares  that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.Several varieties of meteorites have been observed.Where would the sentence best fit. Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage.13.Drag your choices to the spaces where they belong. To review the passage, click on View Text.Answer Choices A. Determining the age of the planets by examining rocks on Earth is difficult because Earth's crust is constantly changing. B. All three kinds of meteorites are similar in composition to Earth in that they have an inner core, a rocky mantle, and an outer crust. C. C. Meteorites found on Earth and rocks from the Moon's surface are the best evidence for estimating the age of the planets. D. Radiometric dating of meteorites recovered from the Moon shows that they are older than those that are found on Earth. E. The expansion of the universe makes it possible to estimate its age by measuring the amount of the redshift of light coming from distant galaxies. F. The redshift phenomenon measures the rate at which the stars in a galaxy are moving away from each other. 