1.The word Presumably in the passage is closest in meaning to A. It is reasonable to assume B. It is possible C. It can be argued D. It is certainly true 2.In paragraph 1, the discussion of cricket dispersal is used to illustrate which of the following principles A. For dispersing animals, the benefits of dispersal exceed the costs. B. Dispersal always involves costs for the dispersing animal. C. Only animals with the greatest fitness for survival are able to disperse. D. Dispersal, as much as organ development, requires energy. 3.The word pertinent in the passage is closest in meaning to A. Puzzling B. Important C. Complex D. relevant 4.According to paragraph 2, what is of particular interest about the dispersal of Belding's ground squirrels A. Young squirrels disperse farther than adults. B. Young squirrels disperse even from resource-rich areas. C. The males and females have different patterns of dispersal. D. They leave the mother's burrow at an earlier age than other squirrels. 5.It can be inferred from paragraph 2 that the phenomenon of dispersal A. is difficult to observe in the wild B. occurs for reasons that are not always immediately apparent C. is motivated by the desire to obtain more or better resources D. has few benefits for most species 6.Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information. A. When closely related individuals mate, their offspring are likely to manifest genetic diseases that will probably be passed on to the next generation. B. Genetic diseases inherited from parents that are not related make it less likely that the affected offspring will survive to adulthood and reproduce. C. When two related individuals mate, their offspring may survive to adulthood, but they are unlikely to reproduce. D. There is a tendency for the offspring of closely related parents to have genetic diseases that make it less likely they will survive and reproduce. 7.According to paragraph 4, young female Belding's ground squirrels may remain closer to where they were born than do males in order to A. avoid inbreeding with their male siblings B. avoid competition with other females for territory C. save energy they need to defend their burrows D. benefit from their mothers' help 8.According to paragraph 5, the hypothesis that males disperse as a result of conflicts with other males is not supported in the case of Belding's ground squirrels because A. young male squirrels that lose fights to other males do not disperse B. unlike most species, it is the females, not the males, that fight with each other C. there is no evidence that young male squirrels fight with other males before dispersing D. fights between males generally take place after the males have dispersed 9.The word subdue in the passage is closest in meaning to A. remove B. fight C. defeat D. accept 10.According to paragraphs 5 and 6, the patterns of dispersal in Belding's ground squirrels and lions are similar in which of the following ways A. Young males are forced to disperse by older males. B. Avoiding inbreeding is probably not a factor in the explanation of the pattern of dispersal. C. Males disperse when new siblings are born. D. The males disperse farther than the females. 11.The phrase coincides with in the passage is closest in meaning to A. is driven by B. occurs at the same time as C. makes possible D. is asignof 12.Why does the author provide the information that if young males are not evicted after a pride takeover, they often leave anyway without any coercion from adult males and without ever having attempted to mate with their female relatives A. To support the conclusion that male lions disperse to find mates to which they are not closely related B. To indicate that the mate-competition hypothesis does not fully account for the dispersal of young male lions C. To imply that young male lions voluntarily leave a pride that has been taken over because the adult males prevent them from mating within the pride D. To indicate that males, not females, leave a pride after it has been taken over by adult males 13.Drag your choices to the spaces where they belong. To review the passage, click on View Text.Answer Choices A. There are a number of competing explanations of why animals disperse, but none of them is consistent with all the observed patterns of dispersal. B. Since males of most species must establish a territory for mating, dispersing of the males makes it more likely that most males will be able to reproduce. C. The reason there is little inbreeding among lions is that young males are driven away from their female relatives by the adult males who forcibly take over a lion pride. D. There need to be significant benefits for a species to disperse because the requirements of dispersal involve energy costs and dangers for the dispersing individuals. E. Inbreeding significantly lowers the likelihood that offspring will survive, and so avoiding inbreeding is a significant benefit of dispersal. F. In mammal species, young males often leave their family group while related females benefit from remaining in close association with each other and their birthplace. 