1.Paragraph 1 implies which of the following about traditional scholarship concerning the development of Aegean civilizations A. It focused on the influence of Aegean trade on more advanced civilization rather than on the invasion of the Aegean by a technologically advanced culture. B. The development of Minoan civilization was thought to require a different explanation from that for the development of Mycenaean civilization. C. It maintained that the rapid development of Aegean civilization could be explained only through external influence. D. There was general agreement that Anatolia and Mesopotamia were both responsible for the development of civilization in the Aegean. 2.Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information. A. Renfrew said that local variables affected the complex social organization of the early Bronze Age. B. Renfrew said that the major changes in social organization could be understood only by examining the effects of the new developments that took place in the early Bronze Age. C. The early Bronze Age, Renfrew said, was a time in which there were major changes to many interrelated aspects of local social systems. D. To understand the social organization and complexity of the early Bronze Age, it was necessary, said Renfrew, first to determine what new variables had emerged. 3.The word justify in the passage is closest in meaning to A. include within the social system B. provide a rational basis for C. employ D. encourage 4.According to paragraph 3, growing grape vines and olive trees increased agricultural yields because A. grapes and olives were mostly used for trade rather than for competing with established crops in local markets B. grape vines and olive trees could be cultivated on land that was also used for raising sheep C. growing grapes and olives did not require the services of specialized workers D. grape vines and olive trees did not compete with other crops for land or labor 5.According to paragraph 3, the increased importance of grape and olive cultivation led to which of the following changes in Greece A. An increase in the number of inhabitants B. An increase in the amount of grain traded C. An increase in the percentage of farmers in the population D. The development of new methods of storing foods 6.The word promoted in the passage is closest in meaning to A. Required B. benefitted from C. encouraged D. speeded up 7.According to paragraph 4, why did the invention of bronze lead to increased conflict A. It resulted in more effective weapons for warriors. B. It led to competition for the control of skilled craftspeople and their products. C. It left the craftspeople who had been involved in making copper products without an occupation. D. It led to competition for available supplies of tin to be used in the production of bronze. 8.All of the following are discussed in paragraph 4 as changes in Greek society after bronze was introduced EXCEPT: A. Social differentiation within communities increased. B. Metalcraft workers became more specialized. C. Methods were invented for documenting the distribution of goods. D. Craft workers gained greater independence from local chieftains. 9.The phrase simultaneous developments in the passage is closest in meaning to A. independent developments B. developments that reinforced each other C. developments that occurred at the same time D. developments that followed one another in a sequence 10.The word hierarchical in the passage is closest in meaning to A. having several levels of authority B. dependent on military support C. hereditary D. nondemocratic 11.What role does the idea of a multiplier effect serve in Renfrew's explanation of the development of civilization in the Aegean A. It allows him to argue that the combined effect of individual developments can lead to a major transformation of a social organization. B. It allows him to explain the idea of a positive feedback loop. C. It allows him to explain the inherently conservative nature of societies. D. It allows him to explain how the changes in agriculture, bronze metallurgy, and craft specialization came about. 12.According to paragraph 5, the transformation of Aegean society involved all the following EXCEPT A. interdependence of the society's various social and economic structures B. economic success C. competition between chiefdoms for economic dominance D. social and political equality 13.Drag your choices to the spaces where they belong. To review the passage, click on View Text. A. The emergence of Aegean civilization was the result of internal factors interacting with each other in a way that multiplied each other's effects. B. Once people began producing bronze, it surpassed wine and olive oil as the most important good traded in the Aegean. C. An increase in population created a shortage of agricultural land that increased social tensions and forced many farmers to become warriors for local chieftains. D. Agricultural surpluses from the production of olive oil and wine and the introduction of bronze technology together supported population growth, the development of crafts, and economic expansion. E. More effective bronze weapons increased the power of local chieftains, who imposed a system in which they collected farm and craft products in exchange for protecting their subjects. F. As the economy diversified and grew, a higher level of social organization was required, a need that encouraged the emergence of chieftains who regulated the distribution of economic goods. 