1. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.A) Historical linguistics is the study of the migrations of peoples as well as the study of the vocabulary, structure, and spread of languages.B) The study of the vocabulary, structure, and spread of languages has provided the basis for much of what is known about some of the greatest migrations of peoples.C) The direction of migration of peoples in Asia, Europe, Africa, and the Pacific was discovered through research on the history of their languages.D) Historical linguistics has shown that the migrations of Indo-European peoples, of the Bantu peoples, and of the Polynesians were among the world’s greatest migrations.2. The phrase “a case in point” in the passage is closest in meaning toA) a good exampleB) a well-known exampleC) an unusual caseD) an important case3. According to paragraph 2, which of the following is true about Portuguese and Persian?A) They both split off from Sanskrit.B) They share the same relationship to Romanian.C) They share the same relationship to Latin.D) They result from the same protolanguage.4. The fact that “experts disagree” to a large extent about the number of Bantu languages spoken today suggests that it is difficult to determineA) whether two languages are related to the same protolanguageB) whether the language patterns of various Bantu peoples are similar enough to regard these groups as speaking the same languageC) which of the Bantu languages spoken today is the original parent languageD) which similarities in the structure and vocabulary of Bantu languages can be explained by borrowing or contacts5. Paragraph 2 indicates that the study of language can be useful in all of the following ways EXCEPT:A) determining the relationship of linguistic subgroups to each otherB) determining the relationship of a language to its parent languageC) learning about the original culture associated with a language.D) identifying reasons for cross-cultural contacts among speakers of a language6. Why does the author mention that “It has become clear that languages do not change at a constant rate of speed”?A) To support the idea that the way some written languages change depends on many factorsB) To point out that language change is a much slower process than linguists previously thoughtC) To explain why the technique of glottochronology is rarely practiced nowD) To argue that linguistic change can best be studied in written languages7. According to paragraph 3, why did linguists want to establish the rate at which linguistic change takes place?A) To allow them to determine how long ago two languages began to divergeB) To help them calculate the percentage of basic words that have been changed or lost from one language to anotherC) To prove that the greater the diversity between two related languages, the longer ago they separated from each otherD) To make it possible to identify the factors that determine the speed at which languages change8. The word “barring” in the passage is closest in meaning toA) in addition toB) consideringC) unlikeD) excluding9. The phrase “the course of change” in the passage is closest in meaning toA) the place the change beganB) the time the change beganC) the way the change developedD) the reason the change happened10. In paragraph 4, why does the author mention the word for mother in a number of languages?A) To emphasize that the sounds of foreign words are often changed when they are borrowed into other languagesB) To provide an example of a word that has the same meaning and a similar sound across most languagesC) To support the claim that a similarity of vocabulary between languages can be an indication of a common originD) To indicate that two words that have very different sounds might belong to the same language family11. According to paragraph 4, which of the following indicates that Hindi and the language spoken by the New Zealand Maori come from different language families?A) The only words that are similar in the two languages are very simple words.B) The words that have similar sounds in the two languages have completely different meanings.C) The two languages have very different words for various parts of the body.D) The words that are similar in the two languages are also found in various other languages.12. According to paragraph 5, why is the vocabulary of a language more informative about the peoples who spoke it than either the grammar or the pronunciation of the language is?A) Because vocabulary tends to change less over time than either grammar or pronunciation doesB) Because it can be assumed that all the languages that have split off from a parent tongue have vocabulary in common, but not that they have similar grammar and pronunciationC) Because vocabulary, unlike grammar and pronunciation, reflects what speakers of the language thought and talked aboutD) Because much less can be known about the grammar and pronunciation of a language’s original speakers than about its vocabulary13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.    The presence of certain descriptive terms, for example, can be very revealing.    Where would the sentence best fit?14. Prose Summary   Relationships between languages can be informative about migrations and about historical connections between peoples.   Answer Choices:   A) As peoples separate, their languages diverge, so over time a large number of related languages can result from the original language; and the longer languages are separated, the more they diverge.   B) Languages with strongly similar vocabulary and structure that are not due to contact or borrowing are considered part of one family and are assumed to trace back to the same original parent language.   C) Structural similarities between languages are more useful than similarities in vocabulary for establishing linguistic subgroups and their relationship to each other and to the original parent language.   D) Linguists generally calculate the extent of change between two languages by comparing them with respect to a few hundred basic words, a process that works best with written language.   E) One aspect in which languages differ is in the number of adjectives they have to describe color; they also differ significantly in the words they have to characterize aspects of social structure.   F) Historical linguists cannot determine when peoples separated or why their languages diverged as they did, but studying the words in languages can provide insights into the lives of peoples in the past.