C1     Listen to a conversation between a student and the director of the student activities center.

Director: Hello Jack, is everything set for the trip this Saturday?

Male Student: Everything‘s ready, uh, 15 people have signed up. Our train gets into New York City at noon, which leaves plenty of time to get downtown to the art gallery for the reception.

Director: It‘s great you could organize this. What an honor having a painting by one of our students in that exhibit.

Male Student: Yeah, my roommate‘s so modest, if we weren‘t such good friends, I‘d have never realized his work was being exhibited. So, since I was going anyway, for the opening and all, I figured I might as well make a student event out of it. Working here at the student activities center has made me realize how popular our activities are. I figured there‘d be interest in it.

Director: Well, you‘ve done a super job organizing everything. Those posters look great and they went up in no time.

Male Student: Thanks, and I‘m glad you could approve the funding for us. 

Director: My pleasure. By the way, how are you getting to the gallery from the train station?

Male Student: Well, there are busses that run downtown.

Director: Right, you grew up in New York City, didn‘t you?

Male Student: Yeah, but, the bus well, that‘s kind of what I wanted to talk to you about.

Director: Yes?

Male Student: I realize it‘s last minute, but, well, the weather for Saturday is supposed to be really nice ¨C sunny, warm. It‘d be a great opportunity to walk the highline. 

Director: The what?

Male Student: Haven‘t you¡­ Oh, I guess not everyone‘s heard of it. It‘s this amazing¡­ it‘s like this, this, park in the sky.

Director: A park in the sky?

Male Student: Yeah! Well, see, there was this old train line, you know one of those eleveated lines, the kind that runs high above the streets?

Director: Okay¡­

Male Student: Well, this one was used for freight, not passengers. But when it got cheaper to move freight by truck, they stopped using it. It was abandoned for a long time, and then, a few years back, the city agreed to turn the tracks and surrounding area into a park. It‘s not very wide, but it‘s over a mile long. And it goes from the train station all the way downtown near the gallery. I‘ve walked it before, it‘s really cool. There‘s grass and flowers everywhere. And, since you‘re high up, you get these great views of the city.

Director: Sounds wonderful, but have you considered not everybody might be interested in walking that far? They might prefer the bus.

Male Student: Couldn‘t we just split up? You know, have some of us walk and the others take the bus?

Director: But, remember Jack, the poster advertises you as the tour leader. Not everybody‘s as adventurous about getting around the city. You‘d need to find someone to accompany people on the bus. Then you‘d take the walkers.

Male Student: Yeah, but who? The trip‘s in two days.

Director: Well, I did my graduate work in New York. Of course it was a while ago, but I still know how to get around the city.

Male Student: Yeah?

Director: And I‘d love to see that exhibit.

Male Student: You‘d go? Ah, that‘d be great!
