1.The word tangible in the passage is closest in meaning to A. physical 
B. related 
C. significant 
D. helpful 2.It can be inferred from paragraph 2 that Charles Lyell based his study of the marine mollusk fossils on which of the following assumptions A. The Tertiary Period was separated into divisions of time that were equal in length. B. Mollusks lived under rocks in the sea during the Tertiary period. C. Evolution of mollusks proceeded at a uniform rate over time. D. Mollusks have evolved less rapidly with the passing of time. 3.The word sequences in the passage is closest in meaning to A. observations 
B. senses 
C. series 
D. categories 4.According to paragraph 2, Lyell's strategy for estimating geologic dates was not very accurate for periods before the Tertiary Period partly because A. marine mollusks did not evolve until the Tertiary Period B. fossil records of the very distant past are incomplete C. there was not much agreement about how to identify or categorize earlier eras D. the duration of previous geologic periods was difficult to determine 5.The phrase another attempt in the passage refers to A. trying to understand the fossil record B. trying to determine the evolutionary rate of marine mollusks C. trying to understand natural processes D. trying to determine Earth's actual age 6.The word converted in the passage is closest in meaning to A. added 
B. changed 
C. restored 
D. reduced 7.According to paragraph 3, all of the following were problems with the calculation of Earth's age using the study of sedimentary rocks EXCEPT A. the inconsistency of sedimentation rates over time B. the effect of geologic processes on sedimentary rock C. the expansion of some sedimentary rocks due to Earth's internal heat D. the loss of an unknown number of sedimentary layers due to erosion 8.The word approximating in the passage is closest in meaning to A. thinking about B. researching C. estimating D. demonstrating 9.The word subsequently in the passage is closest in meaning to A. later   
B. furthermore   
C. evidently 
D. accidentally 10.According to paragraph 4, John Joly's calculations were founded on all of the following EXCEPT A. knowing how salty the ocean water is B. estimating how much salt enters the ocean each year C. accounting for the amount of salt that is recycled D. figuring the volume of water contained in the ocean 11.According to paragraph 4, in which of the following ways could Joly's estimate of Earth's age be considered significant A. It proved that Halley's idea about the age of the ocean was fairly accurate. B. It indicated that Earth was much older than some scientists had claimed. C. It was favored by the majority of scientists at the end of the nineteenth century. D. It was the basis for much modern research into the salinity of the ocean. 12.The author mentions Darwin, Huxley, and other evolutionary biologists in order to A. provide evidence that Joly's calculations inspired scientists working on other lines of scientific inquiry B. support the claim that all of the leading scientists of the time believed that Earth was just over 90 million years old C. argue that Joly's calculations would have been more exact if he had collaborated with experts in other fields D. provide examples of scientists who believed the age of Earth to be greater than just a few million years, like Joly, in order to account for their findings 7 13.Drag your choices to the spaces where they belong. To review the passage, click on View Text.Answer Choices A. It was not until the nineteenth century that attempts were made to determine the relative geologic age of rocks and fossils. B. In the nineteenth century, scientists made a number of important, but unsuccessful, attempts to calculate Earth's age from the record of various natural processes. C. Charles Lyell made a good estimate of the age of the Tertiary Period from the fossil record, but his method could not be extended to earlier geological periods. D. Darwin and Huxley supported the accuracy of John Joly's calculation of Earth's age because it agreed with their view of how long evolution had been in progress. E. Attempts were made to calculate Earth's age from the thickness of surviving sedimentary rock and from the current level of the oceans' salinity. F. Earth's true age, 4.54 billion years, was determined by combining data from the geological and fossil records. 