1.Why does the author mention a block of decorated ochre and sets of shell beadsA. To help make the point that archaeologists regard artistic creations as the highest kind of human achievement B. To illustrate how the discovery of certain objects makes the discovery of certain other objects more likely C. To give some of the evidence that has changed archaeologists' thinking about human intellectual developmentD. To help explain why archaeologists have been slow to recognize the importance of certain evidence available to them 2.How far back in time do the origins of the more versatile stone implements and bone tools found in Africa go A. To around 40 kya B. To around 77 kya C. To the time of the Upper Paleolithic Revolution D. To a time before modern human behavior had begun to evolve 3.The word equivalent in the passage is closest in meaning to A. comprehensible B. concrete C. comparable D. widely debated 4.According to paragraph 3, what do archaeologists want to know about the climate during the 40,000 years between around 75 kya and 35 kya A. Whether it was a reason that humans lived in caves B. Whether it was stable throughout that period C. Whether it changed in similar ways in Africa and in Europe D. Whether it was a factor in how the human cognitive process developed 5.According to paragraph 4, anthropologists McBrearty and Brooks argue that archaeologists' traditional understanding of the Upper Paleolithic Revolution was flawed because A. they underestimated available African archaeological evidence B. the archaeological evidence available to them contained errors C. they could not distinguish artistic creations from objects meant for practical use D. they based their judgments on the limited archaeological record available at that time 6.Anthropologists McBrearty and Brooks consider such components of the Upper Paleolithic Revolution as blade and microlithic technology to have A. first emerged in the Middle Paleolithic Period, in Africa rather than in Europe B. emerged in Europe independently in many different places at different times C. first emerged in Europe, then to have been further developed in Africa D. been part of a similarly sudden, but earlier, cultural revolution in Africa 7.The word exploitation in the passage is closest in meaning to A. maintenance 
B. discovery  
C. transference 
D. use 8.Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information. A. The idea that in modern humans creativity and intellect developed together is supported by ancient rock art ranging from Australia to Africa. B. Australian rock art strongly suggests that modern humans that migrated out of Africa around 70 kya already possessed artistic creativity. C. Since Australian rock art dated to around 70 kya shows that Australians possessed artistic creativity, Africans of that period probably possessed it, too.D. The wide range of Australian rock art strongly suggests that intellectual capacity and artistic creativity were connected as early as 70 kya. 9.What role does paragraph 5 play in relation to paragraph 4 A. It accepts the arguments made in paragraph 4 but asserts that the supporting examples given are not the best ones available. B. It shows that the conclusion reached in paragraph 4 is almost certainly false. C. It presents additional reasons for accepting the position argued for in paragraph 4. D. It describes a possible alternative to the position developed in paragraph 4. 10.The word altogether in the passage is closest in meaning to A. even 
B. necessarily 
C. merely 
D. fully 11.The fact that decorative pierced shells were recently found in caves in parts of western Asia near Europe suggests that A. there may be evidence of earlier creative activity in Europe that has not yet been discovered B. the creative flowering may have originated in Asia, not in Africa C. there was really an Upper Paleolithic Revolution but it did not happen in Europe D. the people who used the decorative shells were unrelated to the people who inhabited Europe during the Upper Paleolithic 12.According to paragraph 6, the apparent sudden flowering of creativity in Europe might be related to a change of climate in which of the following ways A. People became very creative in order to survive climatic extremes. B. As the climate became warmer, ancient European populations moved around much less. C. Improving climatic conditions drew substantial human migration into Europe. D. Climatic conditions became more favorable to preserving the archaeological record. 13.Drag your choices to the spaces where they belong. To review the passage, click on View Text.Answer Choices A. Recent evidence that in Africa the transition from the Middle Paleolithic to the Upper Paleolithic was also marked by enormous progress strengthens the European evidence. B. The idea that events in Europe around 40 kya mark an advance in basic human capabilities has been discredited by African and Australian evidence that points to a much earlier date. C. Evidence suggests that the striking set of human accomplishments that emerged in Europe around 40 kya was built on earlier development in Africa. D. Europe was the center of the Upper Paleolithic Revolution not so much because individual innovations originated there, but because these innovations were creatively fitted together there. E. The people who settled Australia were, without a doubt, modern humans whose origins were in Africa, but whether they reached Australia before 60 kya has not been definitively established. F. It is still unclear why the entire package of modern human behaviors seems to show up in the European archaeological record so suddenly, although various answers have been proposed. 