1.The word steadily in the passage is closest in meaning to A. slowly B. at an unvarying rate C. cautiously D. without making noise 2.The word concentrations in the passage is closest in meaning to A. varieties B. dense groupings C. hidden traces D. shelters 3.According to paragraph 1, sit-and-wait foragers and active foragers are different in all of the following EXCEPT A. the methods that they primarily use to detect insects B. the number of insects they typically eat C. the habitats in which they can be found D. the amount of time they spend moving 4.According to paragraph 1, compared to the insects typically consumed by sit-and-wait lizards, insects typically consumed by active lizards A. move more quickly B. are generally found in smaller groups C. are often hidden from view D. spend more time on the surface of the ground 5.In paragraph 2, why does the author contrast the visibility of lizards that remain motionless most of the time with the visibility of lizards that move most of the time A. To show that it is possible for lizards to alternate their foraging modes at successive levels in the food chain B. To suggest that sit-and-wait lizards are more likely than active lizards to be attacked by predators C. To explain why sit-and-wait lizards are more successful than active lizards at preying on insects D. To explain how a lizard's foraging strategy affects the type of predator likely to attack it 6.The word reflect in the passage is closest in meaning to A. indicate 
B. create 
C. resist  
D. require 7.The word obscure in the passage is closest in meaning to A. change 
B. hide 
C. fill 
D. expand 8.Paragraph 3 supports which of the following ideas about active-forager lizards A. They are less likely to break off their tails when seized by predators than sit-and-wait lizards are. B. They tend to vary widely in their individual colors. C. They lack well-developed mechanisms for avoiding predators. D. They may be easier to identify when they are not moving than when they are moving. 9.According to paragraph 4, compared with active lizards, the movements of sit-and-wait lizards are A. more sudden B. more sustained C. more predictable D. more frequent 10.According to paragraph 4, all of the following are true about anaerobic metabolism in lizards EXCEPT: A. It uses the glycogen in the muscles of lizards. B. It produces lactic acid that interferes with metabolism within the cells of lizards. C. It allows lizards to maintain their foraging activity over a long period of time. D. It allows lizards to run fast for short periods of time. 11.Which of the following can be inferred from paragraph 4 about sit-and-wait lizards A. They have less glycogen than active-forager lizards. B. They have highly variable heart rates. C. They have metabolic systems that do not depend on the efficient removal of carbon dioxide. D. They synthesize adenosine triphosphate continuously. 12.According to paragraph 4, how are active-foraging lizards and sit-and-wait lizards different from each other A. Sit-and-wait lizards tend to have more red blood cells in their blood than active-foraging lizards do. B. Active-foraging lizards' blood carries less oxygen to the tissues than sit-and-wait foraging lizards' blood does. C. Sit-and-wait lizards carry out cellular metabolism more efficiently than active-foraging lizards do. D. Active-foraging lizards tend to have larger hearts than sit-and-wait lizards do. 13.Drag your choices to the spaces where they belong. To review the passage, click on View Text.Answer Choices A. Sit-and-wait lizards use brief spurts of energy to forage, while the movements of active lizards are more sustained. B. Lizards that are active foragers are able to detect insects even when those insects are stationary, but sit-and-wait lizards are able to detect only moving insects. C. Sit-and-wait lizards tend to have predators that are active, while active lizards tend to have sit-and-wait predators. D. Sit-and-wait lizards have less need for bodies that match their environment than active lizards do because of the ease with which they can break off their tails to escape from predators.  E. The body forms and metabolic functions of the two types of lizards differ in ways that support the requirements of their different foraging behaviors. F. Sit-and-wait lizards derive energy for movement from anaerobic metabolism alone, while active lizards rely almost equally on aerobic and anaerobic metabolisms. 