#article
Critical Period
It is generally believed that for many organisms there is a specific time period, a so--┸called  “window  of  opportunity,”  during  which  the  organism  must  receive crucial input from its environment in order for normal development to occur.   This period is called the critical period. If the needed environmental input is not received during this period, the normal development of  certain  physical  attributes or behaviors may never occur. In other words, if the organism is not provided with the needed stimulus or influence during the critical period, it may permanently lose the capacity to ever obtain a particular physical attribute or behavior.

#record
Let's start with a physical attribute, say, uh, in kittens. Adult cats have extremely good vision, especially at night. But in order for a kitten's eyesight to develop normally, the kitten must be exposed to light during the first four months of its life. Without that, its eyesight will not develop correctly, it will never be able to see as well as it should. Even if the kitten is exposed to plenty of light after those four months of darkness, it won’t matter, its vision will never develop normally. As far as behaviors concerned, well, have you ever seen how little baby geese line up and then, single file, they follow their parent goose around? Well, what would happen if they didn’t see a parent goose within the first two days of their lives? Actually for normal behavior to develop, they must see what to follow within these first two days. What happens is, whatever large moving object they first see during those two days, they’ll adopt that object as their parent… forever. It can never be changed. For example, suppose after the baby geese were hatched, the only other animal around was, I don’t know, say a dog. Ok? So the baby geese see a dog, but no other geese. Even though the dog is a totally different species, the geese will adopt it as their parent—they’ll follow it around. And even if the parent geese reappear later, it won’t matter to the babies—they’ll follow the dog. After two days the behavior of following their real parent—a goose. 


#question
Using the examples of kittens and geese, explain the idea of a critical period.

