Listen to part of a lecture in a Biology class

(female professor) Over the years, some colleagues of mine have been studying the behavior of a species of seagull, the herring gull.


Among other things, herring gulls eat clams. To open a clam shell to get at the clam inside, a hungry herring gull grabs a clam with its beak. It flies up high and then lets go. The clam falls onto the rocks. Its shell breaks open on impact and, well, the bird gets lunch. Cleaver!

But our focus today is a variation on this feeding behavior. You see, often after releasing whatever is in its beak, the herring gull swoops down to grab it again in midair. And this behavior, what we call drop-catch behavior, is generally repeated again and again. But why? What's the function of this behavior? Could the gull just be playing? Engaging in what's known as object play? That's what my colleagues hypothesized and tested in their study.

Personally, I had my doubts about this hypothesis. After all, play's much less common in birds than in mammal. Maybe because birds have to maintain higher body temperatures than mammals generally do. I thought they'd have less energy to spare for a relatively costly activity like play. Regardless, my colleagues wanted to test their hypothesis that drop catching is a form of object play. So they made a series of predictions of what they'd expect to see if the behavior really was play.

One was that young gulls would drop catch more often than the older ones and that certainly proved to be the case. Secondly, uh, the researchers predicted and found that the gulls would exhibit the behavior much more often over soft ground surfaces like grass. You know, if it were the gulls' intent to eat the clam inside the clam shell, they'd probably drop catch over rocks or other ground surfaces that were really hard to break the shell, but if it's only play, well, then it's not necessarily to seek out a hard surface, is it? Also if the function of the drop-catch was strictly food acquisition, then the gulls would be picking up only clams. But my colleagues predicted that this wouldn't matter if the behavior was play. Other items could be used as well. And in fact, they found that drop-catches usually involve pieces of wood or broken shell rather than anything edible.

As to the weather, fewer drop-catches were predicted for cool days than for warm ones. Play is a luxury activity for any wild animal during colder weather, when the animal needs to conserve its energy for gathering food. And that prediction was well reflected in the data collected. And then there's wind speed. More drop-catches were expected to occur at high wind speeds. Why? Well, at those wind speeds the gulls can simply glide through the air, a lot less work. When the wind speed's low, they have to flap their wings a lot to stay aloft. It's an energy sacrifice that's understandable if food or survival is at stake but not for anything as inconsequential as play.

And sure enough, wind speeds seem correlated with drop-catch frequency. As winds increased, so did the drop-catches, just as my colleagues predicted. In fact, overall, there was only one prediction that wasn't supported by the data. Based on mammal research, my colleagues had assumed that if drop-catching was play behavior, then this behavior would increase in the presence of other herring gulls. Kittens, we know, play more when in the company of other kittens; same goes for monkeys. But in the gull study, this didn't happen. Herring gulls were not more likely to drop catch when other herring gulls were around them. So, we can't generalize the findings from kitten and monkey research to this particular species.

Incidentally, um, you know the fact that this is a solo behavior does help us rule out a totally different hypothesis about why drop-catch might occur, the theft-detection hypothesis. The theft detection hypothesis is the idea that herring gulls perform the drop-catch to monitor the reactions of other gulls. Food stealing is common among gulls. So a gull might drop catch to see if other gulls are eager to grab its food. And if they are, the gull would avoid letting its food drop all the way to the ground. The idea did seem to make sense, I thought. But seeing as how drop catching turns out to be a more solitary activity, that hypothesis just isn't supported.
