Listen to part of a lecture in a Psychology class

(female professor) Every day we're confronted with many decisions. Take shopping for instance. There are so many different kinds of products today, from pasta to shampoo to lotion, different brands and different sizes, fragrances, formulations, you know, in 1976 the average supermarket in the United States carry nine thousand individual products, today, forty thousand. And the number of alternatives has proliferated in countless other areas: television channels, cell phone plans. It would be unheard of to go into a coffee shop chain and find only one flavor of coffee available. Now, typically, having lots of choices is seen as making life easier. But according to the research study you read for today's class, this may not be the case. Can anyone summarize? Andy?

(male student) OK, so, the study tested the idea that when people have to make a lot of choices, they, it affects their ability to; they can't focus or, like, stay on task as well later on.

(professor) Yes, and why would that be?

(male student) Well, all humans perform certain kinds of mental activities, like, planning, remembering and so on. And researchers think that these activities all use the same, like, psychological resource, like, the same kind of mental energy. Um, their hypothesis, specifically, was that the psychological resource is used for both making decisions and also for, uh, self-regulating acts.

(professor) And self-regulating acts are?

(male student) Uh, they are acts that involve, like, self-control, like when you use will power. Um, for example, you might make yourself start doing something you don't want to do or stick with something, stay focus on it even if you don't really feel like it.

(professor) OK, good, and so when we're making a lot of decisions, we could be depleting that resource that's also needed for such acts involving self-regulation.

(male student) Yeah, and if that resource gets depleted, the idea's that then we can't self-regulate as well, like, you know, once I went shopping for new cell phone, I looked at a bunch of different type before I finally decided on which one I wanted to buy. And later that day, I couldn't get through my math homework, which usually isn't an issue at all. I just couldn't get through the problems.

(professor) OK, a case in point.

(male student) Yeah, seems like it.

(professor) So, the researchers tested this hypothesis by doing a number of experiments. Jane, can you describe one?

(female student) Well, in one experiment, participants were split into two groups. The researchers gave both groups a written list of products, things like different brands of candy and shampoo and different colored socks and T-shirts. The participants in one group didn't have to make any choices about the products. They were only asked to report how often, if ever, they used the products in the past year. But the participants in the other group were asked to make a lot of choices. Choose between two different versions of the product, like, ¡°Do I prefer the yellow or the red T-shirt?¡±

Then the researchers gave the participants of each group a self-regulation task. It required the participants to use self-control. They were told to drink as many ounces of a harmless but really bad-tasting drink as they could. It was water with vinegar added to make it really unappealing. But they were told that they'd receive a small reward for every ounce of it that they drank.

(professor) Right, the idea being that the people with more self-regulation, with more self-control, would drink more. They'd be willing themselves to do something they didn't really want to do that they ordinarily wouldn't do. Good, and?

(female student) Well, participants in the group who hadn't been required to make choices drank more of the drink. They had a greater ability to self-regulate.

(professor) Yes, presumably because that psychological resource humans have for self-regulation hadn't been depleted by decision-making.

(female student) Yeah, so making lots of decision is kind of like doing physical exercise for a long time, you know, in both cases you're depleting your resource.

(professor) Great analogy, Jane, and just like physical exercise like running, it doesn't matter how much you enjoy doing it, if you run a marathon, you're going to be depleted of energy afterward. And that's what the researchers looked at in another experiment in the study. In the article you read, remember what happened when they gave people a series of fun decisions to make? Like choosing lots of nice gifts for themselves?

(female student) Yeah, even though the choices were appealing, the effect of making all those choices was the same as in the first experiment.