Listen to a conversation between a student and an employee in the student activities office

(woman) Your email said you know Lilah Brackford, the lead singer of the Greenhearts. That's the band that does songs about the environment, right? They've gotten a lot of press lately.
(man) Yeah, I was friend with Lilah in grade school. She's always had a beautiful voice and the Greenhearts are great. They sing about endangered birds and whales and stuff. I saw them in the Oreven Theater last summer. They packed that place. So, I thought maybe I can get them to perform here on campus. In another year, I doubt they'd even consider playing at a small university like ours.
(woman) So, did you go backstage after the concert and talked to Lilah?
(man) No, I, uh, I went to the band's Web site and sent an email. I guess I was hoping Lilah would recognize my name, but no one replied, so I let it go. But then, a couple of weeks ago, I saw their CD at the record store, their first album, but not their last I'm sure. And the name of the recording studio was on the CD, so I called them.
(woman) That's resourceful.
(man) The studio put me in touch with the Greenheart's publicist, who gave my number to Lilah and last night she called. We talked about old times, the Greenhearts. She told me about her audition. She still can't believe the band picked her over ten other singers.
(woman) Wow! So when can they play here?
(man) Unfortunately, they perform on weekends only and they're booked through the end of our academic year. But Lilah said she'd be willing to come here, just her and her guitar, almost any week night as long as she gets a few weeks' notice. 
(woman) I can probably help you find a venue on campus, the main auditorium perhaps? Or better yet, the lounge on the first floor of the Student Union building. It's a nice intimate coffeehouse atmosphere and the acoustics are really good.
(man) The Student Union building would be perfect. It's just that, um, Lilah's fee is five hundred dollars, half up front. I don't have the kind of money to lay out and I didn't really want to charge students more than five dollars a ticket.
(woman) You know, our student activities fund would probably cover Lilah's fee, but that doesn't help you, since only registered student clubs are allowed to apply for grants.
(man) Oh, well, never mind then.
(woman) Wait. Since the Greenhearts play environmental songs, um, would Lilah stick to that theme?
(man) Probably
(woman) Reason being is that several of our student clubs focus on environmental issues, the Recyclers, Students for Wildlife, a couple of others, so maybe
(man) Maybe a club would want to sponsor Lilah. But, um, wouldn't the club also have to, like, fill out the grant application, publicize the concert, and make posters and stuff? I'd help but it's really time-consuming and everyone's so busy. What'll be in it for the club?
(woman) It's an excellent way to raise funds through proceeds from ticket and refreshment sales. If you pitch it that way, I'm sure you'll get their attention.
