Listen to part of a lecture in an Art History class. The professor has been discussing West African Art.

(male professor) So far the art we've been examining has consisted mostly of figures and face masks carved from wood. But I want to talk now about some older artwork made from metal, metal sculptures from a city in Nigeria known as Ife. Has anyone heard of Ife sculpture before? Not too many. I'm not surprised, because despite its technical sophistication, Ife sculptures only just starting to be recognized and appreciated by the art world.

Uh, a little background about Ife, Ife culture probably reached its peak in the eleven to fourteen hundreds. Ife was on the banks of the Niger River, which allowed the city to become a major center for trade. Uh, people could come and go easily transport goods on the water and all sorts of goods flowed through Ife, including metals such as copper. Metalwork is one of Ife's key industries, in fact. Metal tools were made and metal sculptures, with a mastery of techniques that may have surpassed that of their contemporaries.

But, again, it's only just recently that Ife art is gaining some recognition. And that's because for a long time, most of the pieces were lost, buried in ruins underground. However, over the past century through archeological digs or even during the process of construction, these sculptures have been unearthed.

In one famous discovery made over eighty years ago, construction workers near the site of the Ife palace complex found a cache of some eighteen life-size metal head sculptures, dating from a height of Ife culture. Here's an example of Ife head sculpture.


You might notice some resemblance between these Ife sculptures and certain ancient European, Greek, and Roman sculptures. Um, the beautiful naturalistic style with smooth lines and lifelike features, these similarities led many art historians to posit that Ife sculptors were influenced by European art, perhaps through trade. But archeological evidence, so far at least, suggests that Ife artwork developed independently of European influence.

You see, archeologists tell us that Ife had access to copper three hundred years before the initial contact with Europeans and that when they did make contact, Ife's exposure to European metalworking techniques and culture was limited. So, uh, this particular piece is similar to the pieces dug up by the construction team. It dates to around the 1,100s. It's made of bronze, a metal alloy composed primarily of copper. Like many Ife sculptures, it's got a series of holes.

Uh, see the line of holes lying across the top of the forehead? And a few strands of thread were found in the same area as the head itself. We think the thread probably held a crown in place. Although it mostly disintegrated over time, we believe the crown was made of wickerwork or some other organic material. Actually, many of the sculptures hint of royalty, uh, with evidence of crowns and related regalia. But it's interesting, despite the detail and sophistication of these sculptures, little is known about them, for example, who they depicted, if anyone, as we've got no written records.

Nevertheless, the fact that each head sculpture has distinct facial characteristics leads us to believe that each probably does represent an actual person. In this example, notice the fleshy creases around the eyes, the way reflecting light defines the cheek bones and lips. These subtleties demonstrate the skills of the sculptor who was able to create such detail, uh, such a realistic figure, because he or she used the technique called lost-wax casting.

Lost-wax casting has been used thousands of years in many parts of the world. Of course, the methods and materials have changed over the years. In Ife, artists most likely began by carving an exact model of their final product in wax, wax being soft enough for finely detailed carving but hard enough to keep its shape. They then covered the wax with layers of clay. When the clay had hardened, they'd heat the whole thing up causing the wax to melt and drip away and leaving just the clay mold, hence the lost-wax technique.

Next, they filled this clay mold with a molten metal such as liquid bronze. After cooling, they'd break the clay exposing the metal sculpture beneath. So, with this particular method, because the mold's destroyed, every sculpture's unique. It's a demanding process requiring lots of skill and patience and lost-wax casting is still used today, though luckily for modern artists, more pliable rubber molds allow them to create multiple copies of their sculptures.
