Listen to part of a lecture in an Earth Science class

(male professor) So, last class we were discussing habitat fragmentation and what happens when habitat is broken up into smaller sections that are geographically isolated from each other. We've been looking at how human activity can fragment habitats, like, when highways are constructed and plants and animals on one side of the road become cut off from those of the same species on the other side.

But it's important to recognize that fragmentation can also happen naturally and has happened many times in Earth's history. But whether it's caused by human activity or natural events, habitat fragmentation can have a significant impact on the species occupying the habitat. Let's look at the effects of an event that occurred in the carboniferous period about three hundred million years ago, what sometimes called the carboniferous rainforest collapse.

The carboniferous rainforest collapse didn't happen all at once. Over time, the rainforest habitat became more and more fragmented until it finally disappeared altogether. OK, so, three hundred million years ago, the world was a different place than it is today. At that time, all the continents were joined together. Imagine a kind of super-continent. And what are now Europe and North America were positioned near the equator. And before the collapse, the climate was hot and wet. Tropical rainforests dominated the area.

(female student) Did we know what cause it, the collapse?

(professor) No, we don't know exactly what caused it, although there is no shortage of hypotheses. Most scientists agree that the most likely one is that there was a rapid drastic climate change, a climate change that ushered in a much cooler and drier climate, followed by a period of global warming. This caused much of the rainforest to dry up and what remained were only smaller areas of rainforest, in other words, habitat fragmentation.

So what did all these mean for the species living there? Well, according to a recent study, the effect was significant. And some species fared better than others. A team of researchers analyzed animal fossils from sites all over the world, from before and after the period when mush of the rainforest dried out. They focused specifically on the fossils of amphibians like frogs and toads and reptiles, snakes and lizards.

And they determined that significant changes occurred in both amphibian and reptile species. Interestingly, it seems that the reptiles adapted to this major transition better than the amphibians. Now, the fact that reptiles were able to adjust better to this drier environment shouldn't be too surprising, if we think about the differences between the reptiles and amphibians.

First, reptile eggs have harder shells than amphibian eggs and can survive on land. Amphibian eggs are relatively soft and they have to be laid in shallow water to survive. There was much less water around after the fragmentation of the rainforests. So, reptiles have an advantage.

(female student) Oh, and reptiles have scales. That probably helped them retain moisture.

(professor) Right. And their adaptability to the change in available food resources was another factor that enabled them to survive. Before the rainforests dried out, reptiles ate mostly fish and some insects just like the amphibians. But after the fragmentation, they began to eat a wider range of plants and animals. Their ability to eat a varied diet help them thrive in their new environment. In fact, this was a time of great diversification of reptile species while many amphibian species went extinct.

(female student) About their diet, how do we know what these animals ate three hundred million years ago?

(professor) Well, the researchers looked at different factors. Remember, they had fossils from before and after the collapse. They studied the structure of the reptile jaws and teeth and also the shape of the teeth, which shows us how they were worn down by what they ate. And they could see the differences in the jaws and teeth of reptile species before and after the collapse. It's too bad we can't see the stomach contents. But researchers can only use what's at their disposal.
