Listen to part of a lecture in an Art History class.

(male professor) The tradition of organizing world fairs started in the mid-1800 and they provided a great opportunity for cultural exchange. In 1867, France hosted an international exposition in Paris. And one exhibit that was popular with visitors was the Japanese exhibit.

A bit of background, for a long time, there hadn't been any trade between Japan and the West. The trade resumed about ten years before the exhibition. Among the goods that were being imported from Japan were various types of artwork. And one type that became quite popular was woodcut prints. Uh, remember woodcuts? It's the oldest technique for printmaking in fine arts. A design is drawn on a block of wood and the areas between the lines are carved out, leaving a raised image. Then, the surface of the woodblock is coated with ink and the image printed on a sheet of paper. 

And an excellent collection of woodcuts was included in the Japanese exhibit at the exhibition, which sparked public interest. Another reason for the woodcut's popularity was that they were easy to get. They were produced in great numbers in Japan and easily imported. Collecting these prints became quite fashionable.

(female student) But to me a cultural exchange implies something more than simply collecting; there have to be some kind of influence on, say, French art?

(professor) And there was. Remember that 1867 was at the beginning of the Impressionist movement. French artists were already experimenting with new ideas, getting away from the elaborate formality of academic art that was taught in French art schools at the time. To these artists, the Japanese woodcuts were like a breath of fresh air, a new way of seeing and interpreting the world. Take perspective, for instance. What's its purpose?

(male student) To create a sense of space and depth

(professor) Right, there are different techniques to convey the illusion of a three-dimensional world in works of art. But for Japanese artists that illusion wasn't important, if, at all, they convey spatial relationships by putting one scene behind or above the other. Um, also, the compositions were often asymmetrical. The main subject might be off to the side of the image rather than in the center. There was an emphasis on lines in combination with large areas of color and color was used in a distinctive way. It produced a more decorative rather than realistic effect. The themes of the woodcuts focused on nature or scenes of everyday life and people, all major themes in impressionism. 

Now, while many impressionist painters adopted an element or two of this style, the artist who best captured the spirit of the woodcut was not surprisingly someone who was a print maker as well as a painter, Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec.

Toulouse-Lautrec stood out in his contemporaries in a couple of ways. For one, he had no interest in painting nature. Toulouse-Lautrec was very much a man of the city and his art has a very up-to-date urban quality: scenes of city life and popular entertainments. In addition, Toulouse-Lautrec developed his skills as a print maker and produced hundreds of lithographs, uh, that's a different printing process. It doesn't use wood. The print is made from an image that was created on a specially prepared stone surface. Thirty of his lithographs were posters. Let's look at one, Le Divan Japonais.

Le Divan Japonais was created as an advertisement for a Japanese theme caf¨¦ that Toulouse-Lautrec often visited and where he spent hours sketching the performers and patrons. So, tell me, what aspects of Japanese woodcuts do you see in this poster? Jessica?

(female student) Well, the main figures aren't in the center of the image and I see outlines, um, and there are large areas of color.

(professor) Good. Now, looking at the figures, the next thing most people notice is how color is used. The color seemed flat. There's none of that shading you commonly see in impressionist's works. The figures are treated like decoration with their more abstract than realistic appearance. The flatness of the colors is undoubtedly inspired by Japanese woodcut prints. And, also, these vivid contrasts such as between the subdued lighter colors of the background and the dark shades of the lady's dress and hat in the foreground, all that makes the poster captivating. Now, let's take a closer look at the details.