Listen to a conversation between a student and an employee at the university library

(woman) Hi, can I help you?
(man) Yeah, uh, I heard that some areas of the library are gonna be renovated.
(woman) Yes, renovations are going to begin in a couple of weeks. Students will finally get the additional study areas they've been asking for.
(man) That's great, uh, but how is it going to affect everything while it's going on?
(woman) Well, we'll try to keep disruptions to a minimum so the library will be renovated one section at a time.
(man) You mean whole areas will be blocked off?
(woman) Yes, but just temporarily. We can't close the library down so things will continue to operate as normally as possible while construction's going on although this summer we'll be closing more areas since there'll be fewer students around, also that's when they're gonna install the solar panels on the roof. 
(man) Great! We're going green, huh, but what about the third floor, uh, when will that be done and how long will it take?
(woman) Are you a graduate student? I mean, do you have your own study carrel on the third floor or do you work in a general study area?
(man) Actually, I do have a carrel but I'm not a graduate student. I'm a senior.
(woman) That's really unusual. How did you get a carrel?
(man) My English professor, uh, Professor Blackwell, arranged it for me. I was assigned one because I'm working on a special project for her this semester. And I'm using a lot of materials even some old manuscripts.
(woman) Well, the third floor will be renovated first and it'll probably take a few weeks. We're moving those students to the second floor until it is completed. There are actually a few unused carrels on the second floor right now. You might be able to use one of them but we have to give preference to graduate students so I really wouldn't
(man) Don't get my hopes up, huh? I really have to get this research done by the end of the semester.
(woman) Can you work in the general study area?
(man) Well, yes, but I'm using a lot of sources, uh, books, journal articles, and if I can't keep them in a carrel, it'd be a lot to carry back and forth every day. And that area can also get a little noisy, well, I mean, for a library.
(woman) Well, why don't you ask Professor Blackwell to write a letter stating your case to the library administer. He might be able to make an exception, certainly worth trying.
(man) OK, I'll talk to her about it.