Listen to part of a lecture in a Biology class.

(female professor) Coevolution is when two or more unrelated species affect each other's evolution in ways that support that enable the continued existence of both. The traits of each species are a result of, or evolved from, interactions between the two species. Eventually, they come to depend on each other for survival. Familiar examples of coevolution are flowering plants with insects or in the examples I'd like to discuss today: flowering plants with bats. Several years ago in the cloud forest of Ecuador, we discovered a previously unknown species of bat, a nectar bat known as Anoura fistulata.

What's fascinating about Anoura fistulata is the length of its tongue. It's one and a half times as long as its body, proportionally longer than any other mammals. And it uses this tongue to access nectar at the base of an elongated tubular flower that grows in the Ecuadorian cloud forests. Because the flower's neck is too long for any other nectar feeder, it relies exclusively on Anoura fistulata to spread its pollen. A question, David?

(male student) Um, I can see how that might help the bat, but how does it help the plant? If the flowers were different, other animals could pollinate it too.

(professor) Yes, that's an excellent point. However, the bat doesn't feed on any other flower. This plant is it's only source of nectar, which ensures that the pollen is transferred only to other plants of the same species.

(male student) Oh, I see; prevents pollen from getting wasted.

(professor) Right, and the flower and the bat evolved together, forming this codependent relationship. And in terms of coevolution, well, first let me say when plants have one or more traits that make them particularly attractive to bats, we call this trait, or collections of traits, bat syndrome. And don't ask me how they came up with that name. 

Anyway, traits associated with bat syndrome are often the result of coevolution between the plants and bats that share an ecosystem. So one bat syndrome trait might be that long-tube flower structure I was describing before, which matches the length of a Anoura fistulata's tongue.

OK, so let's look at another bat species, Orii's flying fox. Orii's flying fox, don't let the name fool you, it isn't a fox. It's a species of bat. Its habitat is in southern Japan on an island that doesn't have a lot of biological diversity, just a few animals do all the pollinating and seed spreading. So as you can imagine, Orii's flying fox is an important member of the ecosystem there. And lots of flowering plants in its habitat have some version of bat syndrome to attract the flying fox.

There's one plant, a huge canopy tree with small white flowers. Not only does this flower produce large amounts of nectar, but its smell actually changes depending on the time of day. Can anyone speculate as to why this trait might have evolved with regard to Orii's flying fox? Julia?

(female student) Hmm, I don't know. Does it has something to do with the fact that bats are nocturnal?

(professor) That's right. The flower's scent gets stronger after sundown. The changing scent would be considered an example of bat syndrome. In addition to nectar, Orii's flying fox eats a variety of tree fruits like figs, seeds and all. And, of course, seeds get dropped to the ground either directly from the fruit or after being eaten by the bat. Either way they're usually dropped under the feeding tree.

We know this because one group of biologists meticulously observed flying fox's feeding behavior. And they estimated that a single flying fox could consume two hundred figs in one night then drop some seventy eight thousand little fig seeds in its waste under the feeding tree.

(female student) But will those digested seeds grow into a plant?

(professor) As it turns out the study revealed that digested seeds have a better chance of growing. The seeds that dropped out of the bat's mouth, very few took root according to the study. The seeds that dropped in the bat's waste, after passing through the bat, almost all started to grow.
