1. What is the main purpose of the lecture?  A) To examine the use of photographs in advertising  B) To examine the effect of using art images in product packaging  C) To explain why the use of art is not appropriate for all types of marketing  D) To compare the effect of using art images to that of using celebrity images in advertising2. Why does the professor mention a philosophy class?  A) To emphasize the importance of considering differing opinions on the nature of art  B) To provide the context in which a research project took place  C) To explain why the results of a study are not applicable to a business class  D) To explain why she will not discuss definitions of art3. According to the professor, what might influence consumers’ decisions about whether an image is a work of art? [choose two answers]  A) Whether expression is its main purpose  B) How much skill was required to create it  C) Where the work is displayed  D) What type of scene is presented in the image4. What is the professor's attitude toward the first experiment?  A) She is worried that the participants may have been too distracted to respond accurately.  B) She is not convinced that the same strategy would work in the marketplace.  C) She thinks that using actual products would have added to the validity of the experiment.  D) She thinks it is valuable because it was conducted in a real-world setting.5. What aspect of the art infusion effect was the second experiment designed to explore?  A) Whether the art infusion effect is influenced by the content of the art used  B) Whether the art infusion effect is influenced by the type of product  C) How placement of an image influences consumers’ attitudes toward a product  D) How to change consumers’ attitudes toward a work of art6. How do the results of the second experiment relate to the first experiment?  A) They call the results of the first experiment into question.  B) They suggest that the design of the first experiment was flawed.  C) They support the results of the first experiment.  D) They show that the art infusion effect is stronger for some products than for others.