1. What is the lecture mainly about?  A) The discovery of a new type of parasitoid wasp  B) How the parasitoid wasp population spreads to new regions  C) An environmental threat caused by an invasive species of parasitoid wasp  D) The use of parasitoid wasps to protect crops2. What point does the professor stress about the selection of hosts by parasitoid wasps?  A) Parasitoid wasps lay their eggs almost exclusively on cassava plant species  B) Individual parasitoid wasp species usually target only one or two host species  C) Parasitoid wasp species often share the same hosts as certain species of beetles.  D) Parasitoid wasps are likely to become invasive because they adapt readily to new hosts3. What does the professor imply when she talks about parasitoid wasps and the cabbage butterfly?  A) Matching a parasitoid wasp species and its host can be difficult.  B) Biological pest control can be effective in reducing parasitoid wasp populations.  C) Genetic research on parasitoid wasps has revealed surprising similarities with other insects.  D) Parasitoid wasps and cabbage butterflies both probably invaded Africa at around the same time.4. Why does a student mention nonnative species?  A) To suggest a way to control insect pests  B) To compare the agricultural impact of two insect species  C) To explain why parasitoid wasps are numerous outside their native environment  D) To raise a point about the harm invasive species can do5. What do scientists hope to learn as a result of studying the genomes of parasitoid wasps? [choose two answers]  A) Whether knowledge about parasitoid wasp venom could be applied to the field of medicine  B) Why parasitoid wasps create more proteins than other insect species  C) What caused the parasitoid wasp to diverge into different species  D) Why only some parasitoid wasps produce venom6. What does the professor imply when she says this:   A) Research on beetles is not considered as important as it once was.  B) More research should be conducted to identify beetle species.  C) It is easier to distinguish between wasp species than it is to distinguish between beetle species  D) There may be more species of parasitoid wasps than there are species of beetles.