#article
Cafeteria Menu Items to Be Posted

Cafeteria menus are currently posted on the university website, and starting this week, both the ingredients and the recipes for each menu item will be posted on the website as well. Many students are concerned about health and nutrition, said the dining services manager, and seeing ingredients posted will allow students to make more informed choices about what they are eating. The university hopes that giving the recipes for each dish will allow students to enjoy their favorite dishes at home as well, since they will be able to prepare them in their apartments or in dormitory kitchens.

#record
Male Student: Hey, did you see this?
Female Student: Yeah, I think it’ll be cool. 
Male Student: You think?
Female Student: Yeah. I think the idea is a helpful one. It should help us decide. Because the way it is now, you don’t really know what you’re eating. Sometimes you might think your meal is healthy, but if you knew what was in it, you might realize you’d rather be eating something else. Like, a particular sauce might actually have a whole lot of sugar or some other unhealthy ingredient.
Male Student: That's true. You can’t always tell just by looking at it.
Female Student: Yeah. Sometimes it's obvious what's in your meals, but other times it's not.
Male Student: Yeah. And a lot of students are concerned about stuff like that. 
Female Student: Right. And I think it’ll also be useful for students because we’d be able to try out cooking. It would be good practice.
Male Student: Yeah, there are some things I’d like to have more often.
Female Student: Yeah, because after we graduate we’ll have to cook for ourselves all the time. Most students I know don’t do that much cooking, and I think this will encourage us to do it more often.

#question
The woman expresses her opinion about the plan described in the article. Briefly summarize the plan. Then state her opinion about the plan and explain the reasons she gives for holding that opinion.
