1. The word “generated” in the passage is closest in meaning to A) producedB) strengthenedC) followedD) dominated2. The word “Furthermore” in the passage is closest in meaning toA) HoweverB) In additionC) SimilarlyD) In general3. All of the following are mentioned in paragraph 1 as developments that led to England’s emergence as a commercial and manufacturing power EXCEPTA) rapid population growthB) an increase in the number of jobsC) a trend toward earlier marriagesD) an end to epidemics and the plague 4. Why does the author mention that “English landowners brought more dense marshes and woodlands into cultivation”?A) To give an example of a way in which the English increased their agricultural production. B) To emphasize the influence of English agriculture on the agriculture of other European countriesC) To emphasize that Spanish farmers needed to improve their farming methods.D) To discuss some of the unintended consequences of crop specialization. 5. The phrase “conducive to” in the passage is closest in meaning toA) a result of B) favorable toC) able to handledD) expanded to 6. According to paragraph 3, why did wealthy landowners increased the amount of land they owned? A) To avoid the necessity of arranged marriages between their children and the children of other landownersB) To ensure that there was enough land to divide between their older and younger sonsC) To increase the number of goods that their farms producedD) To provide more jobs for members of the community7. Why does the author mention that “Some landowners turned part of their land into pastureland for sheep”?A) To explain why the younger sons of landowners had to leave the family land and find other jobsB) To provide an example of a way in which large farms began to operate like businessC) To explain how the practice of primogeniture workedD) To describe a strategy landowners used to keep their land from being subdivided.  8. The word “quest” in the passage is closest in meaning toA) organizationB) exchangeC) searchD) argument9. Which of the following is NOT mentioned in paragraph 4 as a way that English landlords tried to increase the efficiency of their farms?A) Encouraging the use of methods like crop rotationB) Selecting crops on the basis of demand in the London marketC) Increasing rents and reducing the length of leasesD) Hiring yeomen to work on their farms instead of relying on tenants10. The word “exceptional” in the passage is closet in meaning toA) predictable B) initialC) extraordinaryD) expanded11. Select the TWO answer choices that according to paragraph 6 indicate changes that occurred in the English economy. To receive credit, you must select TWO answer choices.A) Selling textile products became more profitable than manufacturing them. B) Local sales of textile products increased by 80 percent.C) English textile merchants expanded their markets inside and outside EuropeD) Part of English cloth manufacturing was moved to rural areas. 12. Which of the following statements about merchants during the sixteenth century can be inferred from the information in paragraph 7?A) Most merchant activity at this time was controlled by Spain.B) The textile market was less profitable for merchants than were other areas of trade.C) Merchants from different countries in Europe rarely operated in the same regions.D) During this period, most European merchants did not operate on credit.13. Look at the four squares that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.    In addition to this achievement in Antwerp, Gresham convinced the government back home in England to authorize actions that would make trading in the rest of Europe even more profitable for English merchants.    Where would the sentence best fit?14. Prose Summary      In the last half of the sixteenth century, England emerged as a commercial and manufacturing power in Europe.      Answer Choices:A) It is somewhat surprising that England was able to expand its economy during the sixteenth century because its neighbors were involved in many wars during this period.B) England experienced an “agricultural revolution” much earlier than the rest of Europe, as its agriculture became more efficient and market oriented. C) In order to make more money, English nobles acquired more land, pushed for more efficient farming methods, and introduced new land-tenure conditions.D) Many of the changes that landowners made to land-tenure rules not only made their farms more profitable but also made life easier for their tenants.E) Two of England’s economic strengths were its use of natural resources and its textile manufacturing, which found increased markets at home, elsewhere in Europe, and in the Americas. F) Though he was a successful ambassador to the Spanish Netherlands, Thomas Gresham was unable to convince the English government to start colonies in the Americas. 