1. The word "dramatic" in the passage is closet in meaning toA) strikingB) temporaryC) gradualD) favorable2. The word "perplexing" in the passage is closest in meaning toA) variableB) puzzlingC) earlyD) complex3. The word "prevailing" in the passage is closest in meaning to A) predictableB) unstableC) dominantD) powerful 4. According to paragraph 2, all of the following are true of the Gulf Stream EXCEPTA) Its migration is caused by wind patterns and changes in salinity.B) Its capacity for storing heat has declined since scientists started studying it several decades ago.C) It moves poleward as it passes through the Atlantic.D) It has a considerable effect on Europe’s temperature.5. Paragraph 2 indicates which of the following about explaining Eocene warmth as an effect of increased heat transport from the equator to the high latitudes?A) Research has found that while ocean surface currents can increase heat in certain areas by up to 30 percent, most currents migrating from the equator poleward cannot.B) The information that has been gathered so far is limited because calculations of heat transport by ocean currents have focused on the circulation of the surface ocean rather than that of the deep oceans.C) Scientists cannot explain what could have caused a shift in ocean current circulation that could account for a 30 percent increase in heat transport during the Eocene.D) After decades of unsuccessful research on ocean circulation, scientists are now paying more attention to changes in wind patterns as a more likely explanation of the Eocene warmth. 6. Select the TWO answer choices that, according to paragraph 3, indicate characteristics of the tropical Pacific’s La Nina state. To obtain credit you must select TWO answer choices.A) Relatively cool state in comparison with El NinoB) Frequent swings in the behavior of trade windsC) More commonly occurring state than El NinoD) Overall reduced levels of nutrient-rich water across the Pacific7. According to paragraph 3, why is the sea surface higher at Indonesia than off the coast of Ecuador?A) Because the ocean is deeper and colder along the coast of South America than it is near IndonesiaB) Because the prevailing trade winds pile up warm water in the western PacificC) Because the difference in temperature between the shallow and deep oceans is less off the coast of Ecuador than it is off the coast of Indonesia.D) Because swings between the El Nino state and the La Nina state occur more frequently off the coast of Ecuador than near Indonesia8. According to paragraph 3, in El Nino conditions, tropical heatA) is removed from the atmosphere by eastern Pacific ocean currentsB) is pulled from the deep ocean layers to the surface and then dissipated into the atmosphereC) remains in the atmosphere rather than being dissipatedD) is transported to North America by trade winds 9. The word "typified" in the passage is closest in meaning to A) startedB) intensifiedC) characterizedD) modified10. According to paragraph 4, what did computer simulations show about the tropical Pacific of the Eocene world?A) The effects of El Nino states would probably have been much greater than they are today.B) El Nino states probably did not occur much more often than they do today.C) Once an El Nino state became established, it would be highly resistant to switching back into a La Nina state.D) If El Nino became a permanent fixture, the climate of the tropical Pacific would have been exported throughout the entire world. 11. Which of the following best describes the relationship of paragraph 4 to paragraph 3?A) Both paragraphs explain why recent research on the role of El Nino and La Nina on the Eocene warming have provided incomplete results.B) Paragraph 3 discusses the weaknesses of most theories about the Eocene climate, and paragraph 4 provides a new, more likely explanation.C) Both paragraphs illustrate why the climate processes that took place during the Eocene are so difficult to understand.D) Paragraph 4 indicates that problems found with the explanation for the Eocene warming presented in paragraph 3.12. Paragraph 5 suggests that which of the following is a problem for the theory that the Eocene climate resulted from increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere?A) Water vapor was a significantly more important greenhouse gas during the Eocene than carbon dioxide was. B) Increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere cannot explain the changes in ocean currents that occurred in the Eocene.C) There is currently no easy method to gather evidence that carbon dioxide concentrations were significantly higher during the Eocene than they are today. D) There is no plausible explanation for an increase in carbon dioxide concentrations great enough to cause the high global temperatures of the Eocene.13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   Indeed, for some 5 million years the Arctic and Antarctic enjoyed a warm climate instead of being capped with ice.   Where would the sentence best fit?14. Prose Summary   For a period around 55 million years ago, Earth’s climate heated up dramatically for reasons that are not fully understood.   Answer Choices:A) The study of the Gulf Stream has diverted the attention of most climate scientists, and progress on the understanding of equally important ocean circulation patterns has been slow.B) Ocean currents that move poleward from the tropics transport heat, but scientists cannot explain how such heat transport could have increased enough to account for the Eocene warming. C) If El Nino states became permanent, oceans might become too warm to cool the tropical atmosphere, thus causing global warming; but computer models indicate that greater El Nino frequency was unlikely.D) Computer simulations suggest that the Eocene Gulf Stream would likely have changed course, and therefore could not account for the higher temperatures across northern Europe. E) Carbon dioxide in the atmosphere can trap and return heat, so exceptionally high levels of carbon dioxide might explain the high temperatures of the Eocene.F) Recent studies concluded that changes in circulation patterns of oceans combined with increases in levels of greenhouse gasses are responsible for the Eocene warming. 