1. The word "thereby" in the passage is closest in meaning toA) initiallyB) fortunatelyC) consequentlyD) eventually2. According to paragraph 1, European settlers were interested in areas that had already been cleared by Native Americans because A) they believed that the most fertile soil was to be found in those areasB) they wanted to locate their fields where they would do as little damage to the forest as possible C) clearing forestland to create fields was extremely hard workD) it took some time before a newly cleared area became suitable for plaint crops 3. The word "suitable" in the passage is closest in meaning to A) available B) appropriateC) readyD) cleared4. According to paragraph 2, European settlers finally started to cut down forest themselves because A) they had discovered effective new techniques for cutting down treesB) they wanted to create landscapes that were more like those of EuropeC) they needed to replenish their supply of woodD) they had used up the available cleared land5. According to paragraph 2, girdling worked byA) splitting the tree in half verticallyB) removing all the branches from a treeC) keeping sap from reaching the tree’s leaves and branchesD) preventing the tree from absorbing water from the ground6. The word "generally" in the passage is closest in meaning toA) additionallyB) preferablyC) usuallyD) quickly7. Which of the sentences below best express the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.A) Potash from wood ash was used in manufacturing many industrial products, and it was also used to restore nutrients that had been lost from farm soil. B) The use of potash in the manufacture of a wide range of industrial products meant that farmers could make a good profit by exporting the ashes from the wood they burned. C) Farms suffered when wood ashes were converted into potash instead of being exported to market for profit.D) Potash had many industrial uses, but when wood ashes were sold for potash, farms suffered from the loss of the nutrients that the ashes would have restored the soil. 8. According to paragraph 3, one advantage of cutting down trees rather than gridling them was that cutting down treesA) supplied marketable productsB) reduced the risk of fireC) added alkaline substances to the soilD) preserved nutrients in the soil9. The word "tending" in the passage is closest in meaning toA) searching forB) clearingC) selectingD) taking care of10. Why does the author discuss the settler’s need to "produce food rapidly" ?A) To emphasize the contrast between early and later farming practices among New England farmersB) To help explain why the settlers did not follow established European farming practicesC) To support the idea that the settlers cut down trees to clear the land only because they had no other choiceD) To argue that the settlers were able to survive because of their economical practices11. According to paragraph 5, which of the following best describes an agricultural practice of the settlers? A) They abandoned European grains, which were not as productive as corn.B) They planted certain crops close together to support and improve growth.C) They create structures to protect and cover corn and bean crops.D) They planted more corn than other crops because it supplied the soil with nitrogen.12. According to paragraph 6, grass grew particularly well in the New England region because ofA) the widespread practice of keeping cattle in the fieldsB) the regular recycling of nutrients back into the fieldsC) the amount of water in the soilD) the fertility of the soil13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.    This way of farming differed considerably from the European system.   Where would the sentence best fit?14. Prose Summary   When European colonists settled New England, they tended to farm areas already cleared by Native Americans.   Answer Choices:A) Once the supply of suitable cleared land ran out, the settlers had to clear new land before they could plant, generally converting the trees they removed into lumber, fuel, or potash.B) The settler’s attempt to follow what, in Europe, was considered proper farming practices was soon abandoned as they discovered that food could be grown more efficiently in other ways C) Because clearing fields took time and the need for food was pressing, farmers were forced to resort to extensive farming practices rather than follow their old European farming system.D) After planting corn (maize) enough times to drain the excess nitrogen out of the soil, the settlers were able to grow more familiar European crops such as wheat and rye.E) The settlers developed a farm ecology that eventually made the region more productive than the South or even the mid-Atlantic area.F) The soil was not particularly fertile, but grass grew well and fed cattle that produced manure, which in turn served as fertilizer for crops and recycled nutrients back into the soil .