#article
Poetry Writing Course to be Canceled
For many years now, the humanities department has offered a poetry writing course every fall semester. Beginning next year, however, the poetry writing course will no longer be offered. According to the chair of the department, the course is being canceled because of declining enrollment in recent years. The classes have gotten a lot smaller, she said, so it's not worthwhile to continue offering them. She added that students who want to take a poetry writing course in the future will be able to register for a similar course at nearby State University.

#record
Female student: Didn’t you take that course last year?
Male student: Yea, and I think what they are doing is terrible.
Female student: But, was the class really small like the article says?
Male student: Sure, there weren’t that many of us. But in fact, I think that small size actually made it more worthwhile, not less.
Female student: Yea?
Male student: Yea. I think with this kind of class it really helps if it’s small. You get lots of attention from the professor. That’s important. You really need the professor’s feedback and comments with writing.
Female student: So, you’re saying in a bigger class you wouldn’t learn as much? 
Male student: Right. In this kind of class you need individualized attention, more time with the professor, a benefit you don’t get in a large class. And also, the…uh…state university option…that’s not going to work. 
Female student: How come?
Male student: Well, because unless you have a car it’s pretty hard to get there. I mean, it takes like, more than an hour on a bus.
Female student: Mm yea, that’s true. I guess it’s not that close if you’re taking public transportation.
Male student: No, and most students here don’t have cars.
Female student: Ugh. So that would be really inconvenient.
Male student: Exactly. Traveling back and forth all the time, you would be on the bus a lot.

#question
Using points from the newspaper article, explain the man's reasons for disagreeing with the university's decision.

