#article
Releasers
Certain behaviors that are essential to an animal's survival are innate; these behaviors do not need to be learned before being performed. Most of these innate behaviors, such as feeding, reproduction, parenting, and self-defense, are initiated by releasers-specific stimuli that release, or trigger, a behavioral response in an animal. Various types of stimuli can serve as releasers. In some cases, visual stimuli such as certain shapes and body movements can be releasers that prompt the instinctive reaction that is crucial to the animal's or the species' survival. 

#record
Right. So let's talk first about an instinctive feeding behavior. Take the European toad. Now, one type of animal that the toads catch and eat regularly is the worm. Worms are its prey. However, studies have shown these toads will actually attack anything that is long and thin like a worm and that moves similarly, that is horizontally. So, for example, if you move let's say a pencil from side to side in front of this toad it will probably attack the pencil just like it would a worm. What's more, the toad will start swallowing even if it hasn't caught anything to eat. It's as if the toad has been programed to go through the full process of catching and eating simply by seeing an object. The object, which is similar to the toad's typical prey because of how it looks and moves acts as a stimulus. And certain geese exhibit an interesting behavior of their own. An instinctive behavior to protect their eggs. Whenever they see objects that are spherical, basically roundish, like an egg, they automatically use their beaks to try to roll this object onto their nests. It's the exact behavior that's needed to rescue an egg that has rolled away from the nest. Only rather than exhibiting the behavior only with an actual egg, the goose is stimulated to perform this activity simply by the appearance of any object that is shaped like an egg. 

#question
Using the examples of the toad and the goose, explain what a releaser is.



