#record
(female professor) There are, of course, all different kinds of professions, right? And people who have all different kinds of skills. OK, and people from different kinds of businesses can benefit from getting to know each other. And they do this by joining a group called a business network. A business network is a group of business people who meet and build relationship, friendship with each other. Being in a business network has a couple of advantages for people in the network.

One of the advantages being in a business network is that the members can benefit from each other's expertise. In other words, members share their skills with each other within the group. Since the people in the network know each other well, and trust each other, they can call on each other when they need a certain business need fulfilled. For example, say there's a restaurant owner who's in the network, and say she needs help keeping track of her restaurant's finances, the money that's being earned and spent. And say there's also an accountant in the network, uh, the restaurant owner can hire the services of that accountant to help manage her finances. It's easier than searching for another accountant and she already knows and trusts the accountant from the network, so that's a big plus.

Now, of course, members of the business network also know lots of other people who aren't in the network, their friends, clients, other colleagues. So another advantage of business networks is that members can recommend other members to those outside people they know who aren't in the actual network. Like, the restaurant owner, she knows lots of other restaurant owners who aren't in her network. So if those folks need an accountant, well, she can recommend the one she knows from her network. The accountant from the network benefits from that connection. He gets new clients because he knew the restaurant owner from his network.

#question
Using points and examples from the lecture, explain two advantages of being in a business network.
