

L2    Listen to part of a lecture in an architecture class.

Professor: Ok, today we‘re going to continue our discussion of early United States architecture. Last time we discussed the characteristics of the federal style of architecture which was a dominant school of design in the United States in the late 1700s. What were a few of the characteristics of the federal style? Allen?

Allen: Well, their exterior design was relatively simple and very symmetrical. Like the front of the house would have the door in the middle and then it would have the same number of windows on each side and a chimney on each end of the house. So the left side of the house and the right side of the house were mirror images of the other.

Professor: Ok, good

Allen: But the interior design was more complex and asymmetrical. You know, you didn‘t have just foursquare rooms, two on each side of the hallway like older houses had.

Professor: Ok good, those were two of the primary defining characteristics of the federal style. There are many others of course, but you can review those on your own. 

Last time I also mentioned in passing that the federal style incorporated many elements of ancient roman architecture. And before we leave the federal style I‘d like to take a few moments to consider the question "Why?" Why did architects in the newly formed United States in the late 1700s have this fascination with an architectural style that took its cues from ancient Rome? I‘m afraid the "why" question doesn‘t get the full attention as it deserves, and I‘m as guilty of that oversight as any other architecture professor. Architecture is a course about design and about schools of thought and all of that. But it‘s also about cultures and history and the context those histories and cultures provide. These external factors are not just a backdrop for the design of a building and they are not just interesting historical footnotes. They‘re as much a part of the study of the design of a building as the design itself.

So, back to my question. Why ancient Rome? Well, in part, the influence of ancient roman architecture was indirect, arriving by way of Great Britain. Specifically by way of a British architectural firm know as Adam Brothers. Adam Brothers was a prominent firm that designed many homes for the British upper class in the mid1700s and by the late 1700s their style had arrived in the United States where is was especially popular with wealthy merchants.

Now, Adams Brothers architects were themselves greatly influenced by ancient roman architecture. So when architects in the United States built, so to speak, on the Adams Brothers style to create the federal style they were also actually indirectly adopting many elements of ancient Roman architecture. Ok, and there‘s another reason why the style resonated so deeply in the early United States? Jennifer?

Jennifer: Uh, this is really a shot in the dark so don‘t write this down or anything, but I mean, the writers of the American constitution and a lot of the early presidents, I know that they admired ancient Rome. Is it possible that, that uh, that admiration somehow lead to an influence on the architecture of that time?

Professor: Actually, that is a big part of the answer. The early political leaders of the United States, the founding fathers, had a great respect for the politics and culture of ancient Rome. And so this new style of architecture being practiced by the Adams Brothers, among others, immediately struck a chord with them, especially with Thomas Jefferson. Jefferson you may recall drafted the Declaration of Independence, and later became the third president of the United States. Jefferson was himself an architect and the designs for many of the buildings, like the capitol building for the state of Virginia, were based directly on Roman architecture. Jefferson also sponsored other architects, like Benjamin Laprobe, who worked on the design of the United States capitol building in Washington DC which also incorporated elements of Roman architectural design.
