C1     Listen to a conversation between a student and her education professor. 

Student: Professor McGraw?

Professor: Oh Hi Karen, what can I do for you?

Student: Well, I‘m ready to start writing that paper that‘s due next week.

Professor: Ok

Student: And I‘m thinking I‘d like to write about the classroom observations I‘ve been doing. 

Professor: What level are you observing?

Student: Fourth grade.

Professor: Ok that sounds fine. Lots of students write about their classroom observations.

Student: But before I start I wanted to check to see, you know, if I‘m on the right track with my observations. 

Professor: Ok

Student: Ok. Well, as I said, I‘ve been observing a fourth grade class and the teacher follows a progressive approach to teaching so I thought I‘d write about a mathematics lesson that I observed last week. How it fits in with that approach.

Professor: Ok, what can you tell me about the progressive approach?

Student: It‘s about accommodating each student‘s individual learning style, right? 

Professor: Right.

Student: Each student is seen as having his or her own learning style so instead of having one planned format or lesson for the whole class, the teacher has each child working at their own pace, on their own projects, in a way that works best for them. 

Professor: Ok. Good. Now, how did this work in the lesson you observed?

Student: Well, first the teacher asked six students to find a math problem that interested them or that they found difficult and to write it on the board. That surprised me because it seemed more like a traditional teacher-led activity than a progressive one.

Professor: Mm but who chose the math problems?

Student: The students did, which I eventually realized made it the kind of activity that you would find in a progressive classroom.

Professor: And what was the rest of the class doing?

Student: They were helpers. If a student wasn‘t sure how to solve the problem they asked one of the helpers to join them at the board and well, help.

Professor: And did they?

Student: Yea, and if those students got stuck they could ask another student so it ended up with groups of three or four kids working together to solve a math problem. I could see that the teacher was getting the students started but the students then directed themselves and worked together to come up with answer.

Professor: Which is very much a part of what progressive education is all about. In that way the curriculum, or what it is being learned, centers around what the learners are interested in. Hmm¡­ what other elements of progressive education did you observe?

Student: Well, the students were working in groups so they were learning social skills, uh, like negotiation and the activity was designed so no one felt like a failure. In the end, all the problems were solved successfully and all the kids seemed to share a sense of accomplishment. They were smiling. Uh, from what I can tell the activity met the kids‘ social needs and their emotional needs as well. It was pretty cool to watch.

