

L3    Listen to part of a lecture in an archaeology class. The professor is discussing a region known as the Fertile Crescent. 

The beginning of urbanization, the first cities in history, is thought to have occurred at an area in the Middle East known as the Fertile Crescent. The Fertile Crescent is the area that extends north and west of the mouth of the Tigress and Euphrates rivers. And it‘s the southern part of the Fertile Crescent that typically associated with the first cities. The cultures there spread to the north but there have been hints that it not as simple as all this. In the time period were going to talk about, around 2000 BCE the southern region of the fertile crescent area was dominated by a civilization called the Akkadians. The Akkadians are often described as the first group to establish control, sort of the first imperial authority that dominated other groups in this area. And one of this other groups from that time was known as the Hurrians.

Now the Hurrians were believed to have originated in the mountains to the north. And in the past, researchers considered them to be a minor culture in the scope of things, and for good reason. The Hurrian language seemed to be unrelated to the other languages of the Fertile Crescent. And there were very few historical references to them. The Hurrians would seem to be late comers to the region whose culture was basically absorbed into the regional Akkadian based culture, but researchers were intrigued, um, intrigued by things like references to Hurrian mythological characters which seem to have widespread influence and by references to a great capitol city. A city called Urkesh.

But where was Urkish? Well, fairly recently a pair of archaeologists made an interesting discovery. They had been working on a site for 8 years when they found a clay seal that dated back to 2300 BCE. Seals were carved cylinders used to stamp a name or symbol indicating ownership of an item. These impressions are in cuneiform script, the common script of the era and we are able to read them. This seal gave a man‘s name. A typical Hurrian man‘s name, followed by the title "the King of Urkesh". Well this convinced archaeologists that they had found the lost city.

Along with the clay seal they found hundreds of others. Many of these bear the name of the queen. And remember, these seals signify ownership. So here the queen, not the king, was claiming ownership of property. This was a powerful queen, but the really important thing to note here was that her name was an Akkadian name. Remember I said the Hurrians were thought to have been absorbed into the Akkadian culture? Well, now things look a little different. I mean, a Hurrian king with an Akkadian queen doesn‘t sound like one culture has dominated another. It sounds like the two cultures have arrived at some kind of alliance. So we‘re starting to think about the Hurrians as a more long-lasting and influential culture. 

We see Urkesh did indeed exist and it was a powerful city inhabited by as many as 20,000 people. Of course the city was eventually conquered but now we‘re not sure by whom. And the interesting thing is that afterwards a sacred central area was left intact. It remained that way for a total of 1000 years of so. And that implies that the cultures that later controlled the city may have been deeply influenced by the religious practices of the Hurrians.

While there may be more surprises to come, one linguist noticed that the style of Hurrian names is similar to that of Akkadian names and that may mean there is a more ancient connection between the two groups. That‘s a pretty radical theory but it fits in the possibility that the Hurrians came into the region earlier than we thought and may have been part of a separate urbanization movement independent of the civilizations of the southern part of the Fertile Crescent. But let‘s not get too far ahead of the evidence. I want to go back and look at more detail at what they actually found.

