

L1     Listen to start of a lecture in a biology class.

We have very good ideas about various shapes and sizes of dinosaurs from studying their petrified bones. But we‘ve had to hypothesize about things like their behaviors and life span because most of that kinds of information isn‘t preserved the way bones and teeth are ¨C or so we thought.

Now just to review a second, the dinosaur bones we‘ve studied were preserved and turned to stone millions of years ago through the process of petrifaction. Petrifaction is when all the original biological material gets replaced with minerals without losing its original state or details. Some petrified dinosaur bones contain almost perfectly preserved microstructures as small as individual cells. And when bones are that well preserved we can use histology to examine them. Histology is the study of biological tissue and in this case histology is being used to study petrified bone tissue. To do that, the petrified bones have to be cut into slices so thin that light can pass through them, then you can examine them under a microscope. It turns out that the preserved microstructures contain a lot of information including clues to behavior. 

In fact, longstanding hypothesis about dinosaur behavior are being proved wrong and new hypotheses about dinosaur behavior are taking their place. For example, there is one dinosaur that we know had a high-dome-shaped skull composed of thick bone. Since the 1950s they thought that with such a thick skull, that males probably butted heads just like bighorn sheep do today, probably when competing for mates. But just a couple of years ago some university researchers in the United states took a close look at the histological findings in several of these skulls to look for evidence of head butting, like healed cracks or stress fractures. But the analysis clearly showed that there was no sign of that kind of stress to the bone. Instead, what they found was small structures that looked like they have actually anchored a crest to the skull. A crest, maybe like a rooster comb. So now paleontologists are wondering what the crest may have been used for. Display? Recognition? But certainly not head butting.

Now, another longstanding hypothesis was that the really big dinosaurs took decades to reach full size. After all, they hatched from fairly small eggs and they have a lot of growing to do. So it‘s a fairly logical assumption that it took long time to reach their giant sizes. Then researchers did a histological examination of apodasaurus bones. Apodasaurus was species of sauropod, a giant plant-eating dinosaur. It had a long neck and a long tail and at full size was about 25 meters long and weighed about 25 tons. 

Now, the idea that Apodasaurus grew slowly was based on many observations including its enorm size and the fact that large modern reptiles grow slowly. For example, Apodasaurus had a relatively small mouth and simple teeth. And the plants that grew at the time were not particularly nutritious. Altogether, it‘s not a recipe for fast growth. However, under a microscope it‘s clear that dinosaur bones have growth rings and by counting them like tree rings paleontologists can infer how many years a bone has grown. And when comparing the growth rings from several specimens of the same species of dinosaur, paleontologists can figure out growth rates for that species. Well surprisingly, that giant, Apodasaurus, reached its full size in just 8 to 11 years. Just 8 to 11 years. Can you imagine growing almost three meters a year? And the only way information like this can be worked out is through histology, you know.

And if that isn‘t enough histology has recently revealed another surprise. In Germany, the bones of several small sauropods were found in a quarry. Since sauropods grew to be very large, the discovery of small sauropod bones usually means you‘ve found juveniles, young ones. But the histological evidence showed that bones were from the species of dwarf sauropods that only grew to 6 meters long and matured in just three years. The new hypothesis is that these dinosaurs evolved to be small because they lived on an island with limited resources.
