#article
The term “Nazca Lines” refers to a series of images created in the deserts of Peru about 2,000 years ago. These images, many depicting geometric shapes, are extremely large with some covering several kilometers. Although researchers know how the Nazca lines were created – the top layer of dark rocks was removed from the desert floor, exposing the lighter soil underneath – they remain uncertain why they were created. Several theories have been suggested to account for the presence of these lines.

    One theory is that the Nazca Lines were used as an astronomical calendar for tracking events such as the winter solstice (the day with shortest number of daylight hours) that were important to agricultural peoples. This theory was supported by the discovery of an astronomical link between some of the images and various planets and stars. It was pointed out, for example, that on the day of the winter solstice, the Sun sets almost directly over a single long line drawn in the desert.

    Another theory is that the Nazca images were created as a monumental art form expressing the Nazca people's cultural and social importance in the region. Many ancient peoples built large monuments and artworks to demonstrate their power and celebrate their achievements. The Egyptians built massive pyramids, for example, and Easter Islanders carved massive human heads out of stone. It seems reasonable, therefore, to think that the Nazca images were built for similar reasons – to impress others.

    A third theory focuses on the fact that there is evidence that people traveled by foot along these line. This has led to the speculation that the Nazca Lines represented sites of footraces in which individuals or groups of individuals competed for athletic victory. In this view, the Nazca images are ancient racetracks.

#record
The three theories that you read gave some very creative explanations for the Nazca lines. But, none holds up well under examination.

First, about the Nazca lines as indicators of astronomical event, what the reading didn’t mention is that the vast majority of Nazca images don’t match up with anything observable in the sky. And for the few images that do, well, you know there are hundreds of Nazca images and countless objects in the sky. Given these numbers, of course, a few lined up. That would happen just by chance.

Second, the Nazca images as art, well, it's certainly true that the Nazca images are large but they’re impressive really only when seen from overhead like in an airplane. When you’re simply standing on the ground next to one of these images, it's not impressive at all. The landscape is too flat and the images are too large to allow people on the ground to recognize them. This is very different from the Pyramids and the Easter Island stone. They’re not just large; they’re tall. It's their great height that makes them visible and impressive.

Third, the idea that people were using the lines as racing tracks, some of the images are in the shape of animals. There's a monkey, a humming bird, a spider and so on. And these images are too complex to make good locations for foot race. OK, so what could it account for the evidence of foot travel along the lines? We can’t be sure, of course, but, we know that other prehistorical peoples in the region had religious rituals that involved walking along specially created pathways. It could be that the Nazca lines played a role in religious rituals or ceremonies that involved walking along the lines.
#question
Summarize the points made in the lecture, being sure to explain how they cast doubts on the theories presented in the reading passage.
