1. What is the lecture mainly about?
  A) How artists create colors by using various pigments
  B) The paints used by some Italian artists in the sixteenth century
  C) How painters create the impression of texture through the use of color
  D) The importance of realism in sixteenth-century Italian painting

2. What does the professor imply about the palette of colors used by French Impressionist painters?
  A) It is responsible for the illusion of translucence in their paintings.
  B) It was inspired by colors used by sixteenth-century Venetian painters.
  C) It is easier to define than the Venetian palette.
  D) It was achieved by a careful blending of colors with black and white.

3. Why does the professor initially discuss the color smalt blue?
  A) To emphasize that Venetian painters' methods were the result of careful experimentation
  B) To describe a complicated process by explaining its initial step in detail
  C) To highlight the fact that blue was the favorite color of sixteenth-century Venetian painters
  D) To introduce a new discovery by first presenting a more widely known fact

4. According to the professor, what was a key factor in the development of the Venetian palette?
  A) Changing attitudes regarding the purpose of artistic representation
  B) The unwillingness of painters to mix black and white into their colors
  C) The tendency of Venetian painters to imitate each other's style
  D) A local industry that became a source for materials

5. What is the professor's opinion regarding the realism of the painting Boy with a Greyhound?
  A) It is an effect that could be emphasized with careful positioning of the painting.
  B) It shows that the artist was concerned with important social issues of his time.
  C) It was not fully appreciated or understood at the time it was painted.
  D) It is not typical of other Venetian paintings of the sixteenth century.

6. Why is the sky in the painting Boy with a Greyhound gray in color?
  A) The artist wanted to give a realistic depiction of the Venetian sky.
  B) Glassmakers in Venice had not yet discovered the use of potassium as a pigment.
  C) One of the ingredients in the paint that the artist used was not long lasting.
  D) Blue was no longer a popular color by the time the painting was made.
