Listen to a conversation between a student and his Organic Chemistry professor.

(woman) Hi, Sam, say, did you have a chance to watch that program I mentioned in class last week?
(man) The one on using microbes to create new fuels? Yeah, it was really interesting.
(woman) Did it inspire you to be a chemistry major?
(man) I do like chemistry, but I'm pretty set on majoring in English. My dream is to be a writer, a poet. I need a science class to graduate so I thought I'd give this a try.
(woman) Hmm, that could be a first, a poet in my Organic Chemistry class. That probably explains why you've asked some questions that no students in this course have ever asked before.
(man) And that's good, I hope?
(woman) Oh, absolutely! I think the class has benefited greatly from some of the discussions you've initiated. But I don't think that's what you came to talk about.
(man) No, uh, I just wanted to find out if we'll need to use a lot of calculus on our midterm.
(woman) Yes, and you'll need to work very quickly.
(man) Oh, OK
(woman) Why? Are you?
(man) Well, I knew we'll be using some calculus in this course, but
(woman) You've taken Calculus 101 and 102, right?
(man) Actually, no.
(woman) But those are prerequisites. You have to take those courses before you can register for this one.
(man) Yes, but, I had calculus in high school so I went to the head of the chemistry department and asked if I could have that requirement waived. He said that normally you'd have to approve the waiver, but, you were away for a conference that week, so he went ahead and approved it.
(woman) Hmm
(man) I thought I'd be OK cause calculus was easy for me. But we're doing some stuff in your course that we didn't do in high school.
(woman) Yes, that's why I never grant request to waive the prerequisites. OK, so, have you thought about working with a tutor? The chemistry department has a number of advanced students who tutor at the university's tutoring center.
(man) I tried that but it didn't work out, I mean, the tutor was really good at explaining things but she was so busy that it was hard for us to find times to meet.
(woman) This was through the tutoring center?
(man) No, I saw an ad she posted on a bulletin board and she didn't charge much, so
(woman) Well, first of all, at the tutoring center the tutoring's free to all students.
(man) OK?
(woman) And the tutors there have all been recommended by their professors and they receive special training and they're available every day.
(man) That sounds like a great program but it's not so close to my dorm. Wait! I just remembered. My roommate has taken those classes, I'll see if I could work with him.
(woman) Well, it's up to you. If you go to the Organic Chemistry One Web site, you'll see a link to some past exams, so you can get an idea what the questions will be like.