Listen to part of a lecture in an Ecology class.

(female professor) I wanted to start out today by considering chemical ecology. Chemical ecology is the study of, um, the role chemistry plays in ecological interactions. That's interactions between organisms and their environment, particularly for the insect world. We think that chemical ecology can explain a lot about, um, how insects defend themselves and increase their chances of survival.

Uh, we're gonna, let's start out by talking about moth. You're familiar with moths; they're similar to butterflies. Moths and butterflies are covered with scales. The wings of moths, in particular, have a very dense scale cover. But in most moths, the scales come off easily. The question is, why? Well, insects often get trapped in spider webs because the strands of the spider webs are sticky. But when a moth with these lightly attached scales flies into a spider web, um, it can escape. They can actually, the scales become like a detachable layer that can be pulled off, so as the moth flutters around, its scales stick to the web not the wings and so the moth's able to fly away. OK, so it's not a chemical defense but rather, rather a mechanical one. But I told you about that so I could tell you about a moth that's different, the rattlebox moth.

The rattlebox moth also has wing scales, but they are, uh, well, the scales actually contain toxins that have a foul taste to predators. Now, the reason that toxins get into the scales is because the moth's larvae feed on plants known as rattlebox. That's how the moth got its name cause the larvae feed on rattlebox plants. And these plants contain high concentrations of chemicals called alkaloids.

Alkaloids are bitter-tasting chemicals found primarily in plants. And many alkaloids are poisonous, uh, like the ones produced by some rattlebox varieties. OK, so the rattlebox moth larvae eat the plant's leaves and seeds and store the toxic chemicals, some of which then get into the wing scales when the larvae change into adult moths.

Now, a rattlebox moth when it gets caught in a spider web, the moth doesn't struggle. What it does, instead, it just, it just waits. It waits until, um, the spider comes over and gives it a taste. The concentration of alkaloids in the wing scale is high enough that the spider can taste the bitterness even after eating just one scale. At which point the spider realizes that it's not good eating and then actually cuts the moth out of the web and lets it fly away. If you can believe it!

Now, the chemical defense of the rattlebox moth allows for some other unusual behavior, too. It flies during the day time, um, which is unusual for moths, who are mostly nocturnal. And unlike other moths, it has a very bright color scheme: pink, white, and black. Normally you would think this would be a disadvantage to a flying insect that could be prey to birds. Uh, but the bright colors of the rattlebox serve, actually, as a warning. It just sort of flaunts its colors as a warning that essentially that it doesn't taste good.

Now, as an experiment, we wanted to see if it's possible to take the poison out of the rattlebox moth, and so, some of these moths were raised in a laboratory. The moth larvae would feed only on pinto beans which don't contain concentrated alkaloids. So without this alkaloid diet as larvae, the adult moths ended up with scales that didn't contain the protective poisons. So, as a consequence, in the lab, they were acceptable to predators. Their bright warning colors couldn't save them.

OK, and if you looked at this from an ecological perspective, this suggests that the moth has a highly dependent relationship on the rattlebox plant and chemistry plays a major role in this dependency. If the host plant is not available, the moth loses its chemical defense. So, really, it's no surprise that the habitat of the rattlebox moth is restricted to areas where those rattlebox plants that produce toxic alkaloids can be found.

You might think it could become a problem to have moths that are so unappealing to predators. The moth larvae feeding on the rattlebox plants, they must be even more repellant to predators than adult moths. But they aren't considered a pest, because their host plants are weeds anyway. And because of the alkaloids, the weeds are toxic to livestock. So, really, the moth larvae are doing us a favor by eating the seeds of these plants.
