Listen to part of a lecture in a Literature class.

(male professor) OK, um, in today's class I want to talk a little bit about autobiography and memoir. They're both terms for genres of writing, writing about your own life. But they're different and I want to talk about, well, I want to start by talking about the relationship between the two words.

Um, if you look at the word autobiography, and it's probably a more familiar term, the story of a person's life as written by themselves, and the three roots in the word are very clear: auto, which means self, bio, which means life, and graph, which has to do with writing. Memoir may be a less familiar term and I want to spend a little more time talking about it. It comes to English borrowed from French. And its meaning, as I think you can see in the word, is a sort of related to memory.

Now, there are some important differences of how these types of writing are approached. And autobiography generally is an attempt by the person to tell the whole story of their life. They're writing at themselves but they attempt to be relatively objective. They tend to start at the beginning and, well, they'd go as far as they can. Uh, memoir is really trying to do something different in that it's not necessarily the attempt to tell the whole story of a life and it can be even more subjective.

I should, could make a distinction between, uh, maybe what I'll call the traditional memoir or the sort of memoir that were more common in the past that tended to be pieces of writing about an external event written by someone who participated in that event. So, you might have a famous statesman or politician, typically writing about important political or world events they were involved in. And you'd read that kind of memoir to get a sort of more of a subjective view of what happened.

Then, there's the contemporary memoir. It's a kind of writing with even focus on the individual and on the experience of the writers themselves. And compared to autobiography, memoirs, contemporary memoirs, are usually a lot more limited in scope. They often deal with just one period in someone's life. A lot of great contemporary memoirs had been written on themes of childhood or you can also have memoirs that deal with just an aspect of someone's life. There's a great one by a woman named Vivian Gornick called Fierce Attachments.

Uh, it covers about twenty or thirty years of her life. But the whole focus of the book is just on her relationship with her mother and so it's sort of, it's a story of her and her mother and their relationship. So, autobiography places most its emphasis on the importance of a person's life and what they accomplished. In a memoir, and here we can go back to how it's related to the word memory, the focus is on the writer's perception and how they felt or what their own view of their experience was.

Uh, memoirs focus not so much on getting the facts right as on giving the reader a very vivid sense of what some part of their life felt like. Perhaps for that reason with memoir you often get into questions about truthfulness or accuracy. So there have been a number of memoirs where there's been a controversy about whether it should be considered a true, if very subjective story of someone's life and experience, or if it sort of crosses the line into fiction. Any questions at this point?

(female student) Uh, has there ever been a case of competing memoirs?

(professor) A case of?

(female student) Two people writing about a similar,

(professor) Oh, I'm sure.

(female student) Or the same experience?

(professor) Oh, I am sure, inevitably. You see that a lot in contemporary politics. How many memoirs are out there about the last presidential administration? Probably about a couple of dozens, so, yeah, absolutely!