Listen to a conversation between a student and the director of campus affairs.

(woman) Now, Greg, in the past, new students moved into their dorms two days early and our office scheduled orientation programs throughout those two days for them. Wait. Why am I telling you this? You went through the program when you were a new student.
(man) Yes, but I don't remember any student advisers being there, so how's that gonna work?
(woman) Well, this time we're gonna have breakout sessions on both afternoons. So, in addition to the large events led by administrators that all new students attend together, like you did, we're gonna have afternoons with more personal interactive sessions led by advisers like you.
(man) Hmm, I see. That sounds good. And, uh, how will new students be divided up, like, based on residence halls they're assigned to?
(woman) Originally, we thought that'd be a good way to do it, you know, gives students a chance to meet people they'd be living with. But in the end we decided to set aside time later for residence hall activities. 
(man) After they settle in
(woman) And before they get too busy with classes. Anyway, so we've added a question to the survey that all incoming students fill out. We're asking them to name their biggest concern or worry. Um, for example, I'm guessing that many will be concerned about the food here. What if they don't like the food available through their meal plan, things like that. A bigger issue might be getting along with roommates, avoiding personality clashes, you know, issues that can arise when strangers are thrown together into a small living space.
(man) Topics we advisers definitely have dealt with.
(woman) Exactly! So we'll assign each adviser to focus on one specific concern. 
(man) But would each group want to spend an entire afternoon on one concern? I mean, don't new students need to know a little bit about everything?
(woman) Of course, that's why the advisers will be rotating from group to group leading discussions on their assigned topic.
(man) I see. So my topic stays the same?
(woman) Exactly! And another way we're getting topic ideas is by meeting with each adviser individually, asking them to reflect on the difficulties they encountered as a new student. Um, anything come to mind?
(man) Hmm, I guess a challenge for me was fitting in, filling part of the university community. Coming from a small town to this huge campus with thirty thousand students, it was rough at first. I was never very out-going. I pretty much kept to myself.
(woman) So, how did you integrate into our community?
(man) First, I joined a student club, the photography club, and made some friends there. I also joined the intramural volleyball league; I've always loved volleyball. Um, in my classes, I literally forced myself to voice my opinions; engage in the discussions. All of that helped me feel much comfortable in social situations.
(woman) Those would be fantastic insights for you to share, Greg. I'm sure a lot of new students worry about fitting in. Let's pencil you in for that topic, shall we?