Listen to part of a lecture in a Psychology class.

(female professor) So, let me tell you about a little experiment that was done at the University of Pennsylvania. Back in 1953, the researcher, a doctor, hooked up a volunteer to two devices: one that recorded brain waves and another that measured the level of oxygen in the blood, which is an indication of how much oxygen is going to the brain. The doctor then gave his test subject some arithmetic equations to solve. The outcome, the subject's brain appeared to be using the same amount of oxygen whether he was doing arithmetic or relaxing with his eyes closed.

The experiment's result was surprising, because for a long time, we assumed that the resting brain work a little like a computer on standby. It was thought that when we weren't actively engaged in some cognitive tasks, like doing math or weaving or for some social task like talking on the phone or looking for a face in a crowd, we assumed that our brain would just stay dormant till we call on it again to perform for us. But, a growing body of evidence suggests that this actually couldn't be furthered from the truth.

You see, even though the brain accounts for a mere two percent of our body mass, it requires a lot of energy to function. In fact, it consumes an astounding twenty percent of the calories we ingest, so the brain is a very expensive organ whether or not we are actively focusing on a task. So what's our so-called resting brain up to?

In the 1980s, we obtained some direct evidence that the brain may be doing important things when seemingly at rest. Uh, positron-emission tomography, the PET scan, had come into widespread use in the 80s. The PET scan, basically, lets us eavesdrop on the inner workings of internal organs. So psychological researchers rounded up some volunteers, injected harmless amounts of radioactive glucose into their veins, and then took PET scans of their brains to see where the glucose accumulated. Uh, glucose accumulates in the most active regions of the brain, causing these regions to light up on PET scan images.

So, uh, for the first PET scan, the subjects were instructed to close their eyes and not concentrate on anything. Then a second PET scan was done as the subjects read some written material they've been given. Then when the differences in brain activity between these two scans were compared, researchers saw that a particular area of the brain was working at full speed while the subjects rested and that the same region quieted down while the subjects were focused on reading.

PET scans from more than a hundred and thirty test subjects produced the same results. The same collection of brain areas, areas along the brain's midline front to back, these areas always lit up on PET scans while the subjects did nothing and dimmed the moment they started concentrating on something. This area along the brain's midline was named the default network.

And, the default network is, I mean, it's not every day that we find a new functional system in the brain. It's kind of like discovering a brand new planet in our own solar system. And the default network maybe even more important than we initially hypothesized. For example, there appeared to be strong connections between the brain cells, uh, the neurons, in the default network and neurons in another region of the brain that we've already discussed in the class, the hippocampus.

Recall that the hippocampus is a small region deep in the interior of the brain that's involved in the recording and recalling of memories. So, given the default network's apparent interaction with the hippocampus, maybe the default network's responsible for evaluating memories, prioritizing them and using these reflections for daydreaming, imagining possible scenarios and reflecting upon them, to provide a kind of inner rehearsal for possible future actions and choices.