#article

Madagascar, a large island about 400 kilometers off the coast of Africa, is home to many mammals that exist nowhere else on Earth. Genetic evidence shows that the ancestors of these mammals arrived there from the African mainland between 60 million and 20 million years ago. According to a popular theory, the ancestor species crossed the 400 kilometers by riding debris like logs or branches floating on the ocean. However, there are serious problems with that theory.

First, land mammals normally cross the sea only by accident. For example, a few animals might be swept into the water by a big storm and then somehow stay afloat on logs or plants. That does not happen frequently. In addition, in order to reproduce and establish a population in the new location, several individuals of the same species would have to make the crossing together - an even rarer accident. It seems implausible that such accidental events could happen often enough to give rise to the large and diverse mammalian fauna of Madagascar.

Second, the sea currents near the mainland African coast where the mammals supposedly came from do not flow toward Madagascar. Even if some animals were thrown into the water by storms and were able to float on debris, the currents would carry them away from Madagascar.

Third, a 400-kilometer journey would have taken too long for animals to survive. Scientists estimate that the trip takes three weeks. It is impossible to float over the ocean for that long without any sources of food or freshwater. The animals that were washed out to sea would have died of hunger or thirst before reaching the new location.

#record
Now listen to part of a lecture on the topic you just read about.

(female professor) Let’s reconsider the reasons that the reading disagree with the theory. Once you know the whole story, you’ll see that those reasons are not convincing. It seems very likely that the theory is correct. The animals did float to Madagascar.

First, new genetic research has revealed a surprising result. All the mammal species that currently live on the island of Madagascar are descended from just four ancestor species, so only four species had to accidentally cross the sea from the African continent to Madagascar. That’s just four successful crossing in the course of, what was it? Forty million years, right? So even though crossings like these are unusual, four crossings could have happened. In such a long period of time even unusual events will occur a few times.

Second, about the sea currents, although the sea currents may not float toward Madagascar today, we have to ask what the situation was millions of years ago. Computer models show us that sixty million years ago, Africa and Madagascar were a bit further south than they are now. At that location further to the south, the sea currents float differently than they do at the present location. They float toward Madagascar. So the currents could have brought the animals to the island at that time.

Third, animals would not necessarily have died of thirst or starvation during the trip. Some mammals have the ability to slow down their metabolism by entering into a state called torpor. While in this state, they do not need to eat or drink since their metabolism is at very low levels. The mammals on Madagascar belong to groups that experience torpor. So, it’s likely that their ancestors could have survived the three-week trip from mainland Africa.
#question
Summarize the points made in the lecture, being sure to explain how they respond to the specific points made in the reading passage.
