1.	What does the professor mainly discuss?
A.	Recent discoveries that explain the disappearance of the Hurrian civilization
B.	A theory about the influence of the Akkadian civilization on the Hurrian civilization
C.	Evidence that shows the historical importance of the Hurrian civilization
D.	Reasons that urbanization in the Hurrian kingdom occurred relatively late

2.	Before the discovery of the clay seals, what was believed to be true about the Hurrians?
A.	They spoke a language related to Akkadian.
B.	They had disappeared before the appearance of the Akkadians.
C.	They were the first cultural group to live in cities.
D.	They were not an influential culture in the Fertile Crescent.

3.	What does the professor say about the clay seal with the Hurrian king's name?
A.	It took eight years to translate.
B.	Its place of origin was unclear.
C.	It helped archaeologists identify the city of Urkesh.
D.	It showed that the king came from an Akkadian family.

4.	What idea is supported by the discovery of the clay seals with the queen's name?
A.	That during this time period queens were more powerful than kings
B.	That previously discovered clay seals had been mistranslated
C.	That the Hurrians were the first urban culture in the Fertile Crescent
D.	That the Hurrians had not been conquered by the Akkadians
5.	Why does the professor mention a sacred central area in the city of Urkesh?
A.	To imply that it was built before the Hurrians arrived in the area
B.	To explain how researchers are able to estimate the population of the city
C.	To show the continued influence of the Hurrian culture
D.	To show why there are doubts about the identity of the city

6.	What is the professor's view of the theory that the connection between the Hurrians and Akkadians is far more ancient than once believed?
A.	The theory will probably be shown to be false in the near future.
B.	The theory is contradicted by the latest linguistic discoveries.
C.	Existing evidence indicates that the theory must be true.
D.	The evidence for the theory is interesting, but not conclusive.
