1.	What does the professor mainly discuss?
A.	Various styles of architecture in the early United States
B.	The influence of ancient Roman architecture on architecture in the early United States
C.	Possible reasons for the decline of the Federal style of architecture
D.	Differences between ancient Roman architecture and the Federal style of architecture

2.	According to the discussion, what were two characteristics of the exterior design of a home built in the Federal style?	Click on 2 answers
A.	The design was relatively simple.
B.	The chimney was positioned above the front door.
C.	The door and windows were much larger than in older houses.
D.	The right side of the house and the left side of the house were identical.

3.	What is the professor's belief about architecture professors?
A.	They often fail to make their lectures interesting for students.
B.	They tend to focus too little on factors that have influenced architectural design.
C.	They spend too little time discussing recent developments in the field of architecture.
D.	They tend to be more creative in their teaching than professors in other fields.

4.	Why does the professor mention the Adam Brothers' firm?
A.	To explain how early American architectural design principles became popular in Great Britain
B.	To point out that most early American architects had little or no formal training
C.	To explain one way in which ancient Roman architecture came to influence Federal style architecture
D.	To point out that British architects in the 1700s rejected the architectural design principles of ancient Rome
 
5.	According to the professor, in what two ways did Thomas Jefferson help increase the use of Roman architectural design principles in the United States?
Click on 2 answers
A.	By passing laws that favored the use of Roman design principles
B.	By sponsoring architects who used Roman design principles
C.	By designing buildings that incorporated Roman design principles
D.	By teaching Roman design principles to architecture students