#record
Ok, so many animals benefit from living in groups, it provides them with protection from predators and umm, with social companionship, so it's important for these animals to maintain their group's unity, they need ways to either avoid conflict or if they do occur, to resolve them peacefully. To help them achieve this, many animals use what are called “display behaviors”, these are behaviors that are mostly for show, uh, symbolic behaviors that send a message to the other animals and help maintain the group's unity. One way is through the use of threatening display behaviors, threatening display behaviors are used to communicate a warning, but they aren't meant to really harm other animals, rather to help animals avoid fights. Some monkeys, like baboons for instance, they normally use threatening display behaviors. Like, well let's say two baboons find some food, and they both want it. One baboon, maybe the first baboon to see the fruit, might stare at the other one and make threaten noises like grunt, so that the other baboon knows it wants the food. Because the other baboon understands the meaning of the stares and grunt, it can give up the food without a fight. And this behavior benefits the group by preventing conflict. But sometimes physical fights do occur, and animals move away to reconcile afterwards, to make up, to ensure that everyone in the group continues to get along. In these cases, an animals might use friendly display behavior to restore group unity. Umm, let's return to the baboon example, let's say the two baboons do end up getting into a physical fight over the food. After the conflict, the two animals move away to resolve things. So what they do is approach each other while making friendly noises, and they even hug each other as if to say everything's okay now, I'm not angry with you anymore. It's through this display behavior, sending noises or hug, the baboons can make up, and the group can go back to normal. 

#question
Using the example of baboons from the lecture, explain two ways in which display behavior can help animals maintain group unity.