1. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.  A) Because turtles need to maintain body temperatures that are higher than the temperature of the water in most ponds, pond turtles have to spend a lot of time on logs.  B) Since most pond turtles are too small to maintain body temperatures above the temperature of the water they are in, they often sun themselves on logs.  C) Before small pond turtles have grown large enough to maintain high body temperatures in pond water, they can be seen sunning themselves on logs.  D) The fact that small pond turtles often expose themselves to the sun shows that such turtles need to maintain higher body temperatures than most other turtles do.2. According to paragraph 1, basking may benefit turtles in all of the following ways EXCEPT:  A) making them grow faster  B) activating vitamin D  C) helping them digest food faster  D) making their shells harder3. According to paragraph 1, having small shells allows turtles to  A) live in fast-flowing streams  B) move their legs more freely  C) live at higher altitudes  D) get into the water faster when disturbed4. According to paragraph 2, in what way are small turtles and small tortoises like other small reptiles?  A) They warm up more quickly than they cool down.  B) They prefer home ranges that contain more sunlight than shade.  C) They control their body temperature by choosing an appropriate microclimate.  D) They quickly learn their way around unfamiliar territory.5. Paragraph 2 suggests that small tortoises tend to thermoregulate more effectively when they are in familiar territory because in familiar territory they  A) know where suitable microclimates are located  B) do not need to warm and cool quite as rapidly  C) are better able to compete with other small reptiles  D) have less need to maintain stable shell temperatures6. The word "acute" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) severe  B) common  C) noticeable  D) deadly7. According to paragraph 3, how does the size of a large turtle affect its thermoregulation?  A) It allows temperature changes to happen more slowly.  B) It allows turtles to decrease their body temperature as needed on sunny days.  C) It makes cooling a turtle’s body at night more difficult.  D) It keeps them warm during the rainy season.8. According to paragraph 3, why do females that remain in the center of the island lay fewer eggs than those that migrate to the coast?  A) It is colder in the center of the island.  B) It is more crowded in the center of the island.  C) Less water is available in the center of the island.  D) Less food is available in the center of the island.9. The word "scarce" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) seasonal  B) rare  C) temporary  D) typical10. In paragraph 4, why does the author discuss the body temperature of a green turtle swimming in 20C water?   A) To present evidence that some species of marine turtles can survive in very cold water   B) To help support the claim that marine turtles are able to achieve a significant degree of heat retention due to their large size   C) To demonstrate the advantage that green turtles have over larger turtles such as leatherbacks in controlling their body temperatures   D) To emphasize the point that marine turtles must be very large to achieve any significant degree of endothermy11. The word "retaining" in the passage is closest in meaning to   A) distributing   B) managing   C) keeping   D) using12. According to paragraph 4, what might help explain the apparent ability of leatherbacks to maintain a body temperature well above the temperature of the surrounding water?   A) The unusually large amount of heat that they produce through muscular activity   B) The very cool temperature of the water in which they generally swim   C) The frequency with which they return to warm equatorial regions   D) The way the blood vessels in their flippers are arranged13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   Their body size also allows them to burrow underground for protection from the sun.   Where would the sentence best fit?14. Prose Summary   Turtles can maintain relatively stable body temperatures by regulating their exchange of heat energy with the environment.   Answer Choices:   A) Small turtles that live in ponds and streams raise their body temperatures above the temperature of the water by basking in the sun on logs or rocks, or, in some cases, in trees.   B) By exposing themselves to ultraviolet light, pond turtles are able to activate vitamin D, which allows them to raise their body temperatures and thus rid themselves of algae and leeches.   C) Small terrestrial turtles warm and cool rapidly and can easily maintain stable temperatures by moving between sunlight and shade; large tortoises need access to deep shade to prevent overheating.   D) There is some evidence that various small species of turtle are able to maintain relatively stable body temperatures only while they remain within the small area of familiar waters.   E) Giant tortoises that live in tropical regions can remain active during the hottest part of the year only by migrating to cooler coastal areas where there are enough trees to provide ample shade.   F) Marine turtles are large enough to achieve some degree of internal temperature control, and this allows them to maintain adequate body temperatures even when swimming in very cold water.