1. According to paragraph 1, all of the following are ways in which trees prepare to enter a state of dormancy as winter approaches EXCEPT:  A) They remove nutrients from their leaves.  B) They remove chlorophyll from their leaves.  C) They add autumn-colored pigments to their leaves.  D) They stop up the ends of the vessels that carry water to their leaves.2. Why does the author mention that "Some autumns and springs are freezing, some balmy" ?  A) To argue that shifts in temperature and rainfall can benefit trees depending on the season  B) To argue that temperate trees vary the times of the year when they product their leaves and flowers depending on the weather  C) To help explain why trees cannot depend on temperature and rainfall as primary indicators of the seasons  D) To show how much seasonal weather may vary at different latitudes3. The word "rigid" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) changing  B) basic  C) fixed  D) established4. According to paragraph 2, each of the following is true of the phenomenon called photoperiodism EXCEPT:  A) It applies equally to trees and crop plants.  B) It explains why temperate trees always blossom in the spring.  C) It alone determines the timing of blossoming for trees and crop plants regardless of weather conditions.  D) It has been more heavily researched in crop plants than in trees.5. What can be inferred from paragraph 3 about day-neutral plants?  A) They will flower only if days are between 12 and 16 hours in length.  B) They will flower only if days are shorter than 12 hours or longer than 16 hours.  C) Their flowering depends on factors other than length of day.  D) Their flowering is not affected by weather conditions.6. Which of the following can be inferred from paragraph 4 about the aspens of North America?  A) They grow best in the subtropics.  B) They are better at measuring absolute day length than many other types of trees are.  C) They are more numerous in high latitudes than in low latitudes.  D) They can tolerate fourteen or more hours of sunlight a day.7. Why does the author mention "a minute from a 25-watt bulb would do" ?  A) To illustrate the flowering plants’ sensitivity to light  B) To highlight the flowering plants’ need for light  C) To provide a method used to encourage long-day plants to flower  D) To support the idea that plants sometimes require an artificial light source in order to flower8. According to paragraph 5, why should long-day plants be called short-night plants and short-day plants be called long-night plants?  A) Because for a day to be long the night must be short, and for a day to be short the night must be long  B) Because flowering generally occurs at night rather than during the day  C) Because plants generally will not flower if a brief period of light interrupts the darkness  D) Because plants determine the time of flowering by measuring the length of the night rather than the length of the day9. The word "underlying" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) practical  B) basic  C) obvious  D) necessary10. The word "Inevitably" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) Unavoidably  B) Usually  C) Possibly  D) Surprisingly11. The word "insights" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) differences  B) responses  C) characteristics  D) realizations12. According to paragraph 6, a brief burst of light in the greenhouse at night has which of the following effects on chrysanthemums?  A) It stops them from flowering.  B) It weakens their phytochrome.  C) It makes them flower no matter what the season is.  D) It makes them behave as if the night were longer than it actually is.13. Look at the four squares  []  that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   On the other hand, the flowering of a day-neutral plant is not limited to a single season or even two: day-neutral varieties of roses, for example, can flower at any time from early spring to late autumn.   Where would the sentence best fit?14. Prose Summary   Plants depend on various seasonal cues to prepare for dormancy and to begin flowering.   Answer Choices:   A) While temperature and rainfall are not the main seasonal cues controlling when plants will flower, they play a major role in determining when plants begin preparations to enter dormancy.   B) Length of day is the primary cue to season for many plants because it is the least variable and most reliable indicator of the time of year, while weather plays a secondary role.   C) Plants are commonly grouped according to different day-length requirements for flowering ? some require a long day, some require a short day, and others are indifferent to day length.   D) Long-day plants are found at high latitudes because they require the most daylight to flower, whereas short-day plants appear at low latitudes because they require the least daylight to flower.   E) The fact that a brief burst of light will stop short-day plants from flowering helps show that plants actually measure the length of the night rather than the length of the day.   F) Short-day plants have one form of phytochrome while long-day plants have another, allowing short-day plants to flower earlier and long-day plants to flower later.