1. The word “modest” in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) variable  B) reasonable  C) ineffective  D) controversial2. According to paragraph 1, all of the following were true of the Italian economy in the seventeenth century EXCEPT:  A) Prices of manufactured goods were very competitive.  B) Fewer crafts and paper were produced.  C) Cloth production decreased in many cities.  D) Most states raised their taxes.3. In paragraph 1, why does the author provide the percentage of taxes imposed on the price of cloth in Genoa, Florence, Milan, and Venice?  A) To explain the effects of taxation on the price of manufactured goods  B) To show that the tax rates in the cloth industry were lower than those in other manufacturing industries  C) To compare tax rates on the price of cloth in different Italian cities  D) To demonstrate that taxation was not a significant cause of industrial decline4. In paragraph 2, why does the author mention that the government of Milan occasionally granted tax reductions?  A) To explain a typical way Italian cities attempted to improve production in the textile industry  B) To provide evidence that the strongest advocates of tax relief lived in the city of Milan  C) To support the claim that taxes did not undermine the competitiveness of Italian goods  D) To show that reducing taxes was effective when combined with a total ban on foreign goods5. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.  A) Documents showed that Dutch and English manufacturers and shipbuilders paid their employees less than Italian employers did.  B) Documents revealed complaints that high wage rates affected Italian competitiveness in several industries.  C) Labor costs in the manufacturing industries were as high as they were in the shipbuilding and shipping industries.  D) Documents of the time often included complaints that excessive wages paid to Italian workers were not effective enough to make Italian products stand up to Dutch and English goods.6. According to paragraph 3, which of the following suggests that high labor costs were a weakness of the Italian economy?  A) Lower prices for foreign goods decreased Italian market shares.  B) Italian laborers were able to purchase expensive Dutch and English goods.  C) Foreign merchants complained about the high cost of Italian goods.  D) Shipbuilding and shipping in Italy declined.7. According to paragraph 4, how did craft guilds allegedly keep labor costs high?  A) They demanded that apprentices be paid as much as experienced craft workers.  B) They made employers commit to long-term contracts with their employees.  C) They required employers to pay the guilds high fees to hire guild members.  D) They controlled the wage rates and restricted the entry of new workers into the crafts.8. The phrase “regard for” in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) regret for  B) knowledge of  C) concern for  D) acceptance of9. According to paragraph 4, there is evidence to support which of the following statements about labor relations in the seventeenth century?  A) Wages were probably were much lower than critics claimed.  B) Only a few sectors of the economy were probably controlled by guilds.  C) Artisans probably had little influence over how much they were paid.  D) High labor costs probably had no long-term economic consequences.10. The word “persistently” in the passage is closest in meaning to   A) constantly   B) evidently   C) unexpectedly   D) excessively11. The word “sustained” in the passage is closest in meaning to   A) required   B) introduced   C) involved   D) supported12. Which of the following can be inferred from paragraph 5 about workers in Genoa, Milan, Venice, and Florence who lost their manufacturing jobs during the seventeenth century?   A) They moved to other cities to find employment.   B) They found other kinds of jobs in their home cities.   C) They trained to perform jobs in new industries.   D) They worked for lower wages in jobs in other industries.13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   In would appear that, in those cities, taxes were not a major expense.   Where would the sentence best fit?14. Prose Summary   Italian industry declined in the seventeenth century.   Answer Choices:   A) The increase in the tax burden made Italian goods and services less competitive, resulting in the decline in production in clothing, papermaking, and other crafts.   B) Tax reductions and the imposition of a total ban on imported goods were not effective in helping industrial recovery.   C) Since taxes accounted for a small percentage of the price of manufactured goods in most cities, tax cuts could not have made the clothing industry more competitive.   D) Labor costs in Italy were relatively higher than those in other countries, and thus made Italian goods and services more expensive.   E) Most Italian cities were turned into ghost towns as the manufacturing industries that once flourished in them collapsed.   F) Despite the declining employment in a number of major industries, the demand for labor in select luxury or artistic crafts, retail trade, and domestic service kept labor costs high.