#article
Restrict Access to University Garden
Professors in the botany department conduct research on the plants and flowers that grow in the university botanical garden. However, it has become difficult for us to do this research, because students who visit the garden often pick the flowers and step on the plants. l think the university should close the garden to students and other visitors and only allow researchers in the area. This would ensure the protection of the plants and flowers so they can be used for research purposes. Also, there are a few parks located near town, not far from the university, so students would still have ample opportunities to enjoy the outdoors.
Sincerely,
Professor Mary Green

#record
(woman) Isaac, did you see this?
(man) Yeah, I hope they don¡¯t do that. A lot of people enjoy going there.
(woman) Sounds like the professor thinks it¡¯s necessary, though.
(man) Well, I think that¡¯s kind of extreme. If they want to take care of it, they should start by actually letting us know that it needs to be protected. I don¡¯t think most students are even aware that they do research there.
(woman) Yeah, this is the first time I¡¯ve heard about it.
(man) Me, too, so if students were better informed about the studies and all, then I¡¯m sure they¡¯d be more careful. They¡¯d stay on the path and they wouldn¡¯t disturb anything. If we know about the rules, we¡¯ll follow them.
(woman) Agreed.
(man) Also, it bothers me because I think she¡¯s wrong about students having other possibilities.
(woman) Oh, yeah, the thing about the parks
(man) Yeah, I mean, they are not as easy for us to get to as she makes it seem. They are too far away to walk to.
(woman) Right, I mean, if you had a car, maybe.
(man) Yeah, but, most students don¡¯t and there¡¯s no public transportation out there, either. We really rely on having this beautiful spot right here on campus. So, if they take it away, I don¡¯t know.
(woman) We wouldn¡¯t have many options left, would we?
(man) No, it¡¯d be a shame.

#question
The man expresses his opinion about the proposal described in the letter. Briefly summarize the proposal. Then state his opinion about the proposal and explain the reasons he gives for holding that opinion.