#article
Geoengineering
Many human activities can be harmful to the Earth s natural environment, and some scientists are interested in finding ways to counteract the negative effects of these activities. A number of different strategies for improving damage to the environment through the manipulation of nature have been proposed. Through the use of geoengineering, scientists make deliberate, large-scale changes to the environment in an attempt to reverse negative effects. Many scientists are hopeful that the application of geoengineering techniques will help to slow down or even reverse damage of to the environment.

#record
(male professor) So, let's look at one example of this that involves a common mineral called olivine. A central environmental challenge we have, especially in urban areas, is the excessive presence of carbon dioxide in the air. And as we all know, just about all of our cars produce it and it's a component in the smoke that comes out of factories as well. All of this carbon dioxide gets released into the atmosphere creating pollution that harms plants, animals, and people.
Now, for decades we've been trying to redesign vehicles and manufacturing plants so that they'll release lower and lower levels of carbon dioxide into the air. But there are other lesser known strategies scientists hope to try. And one proposal is to use the natural properties of olivine.
Olivine is a type of rock that actually absorbs carbon dioxide. It captures the carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and stores it in a stable solid form. And what's wonderful about olivine is that it's pretty abundant. There's a lot of it in the subsurface of the Earth. So, scientists have suggested that we start mining it, digging it up, in greater quantities. In fact, in some places, crushed olivine, olivine pebbles, are already being spread on walkways and on playground surfaces.
But researchers propose that it could be used in many more ways, spreading lots of this mineral all over the Earth's surface, on roads or beaches so that it'll reduce the amount of pollution in the atmosphere.

#question
Explain how scientists' proposed use of olivine would be an example of geoengineering.