#article
Newspaper to Post Off-Campus Job Opportunities
The campus newspaper has traditionally posted job listings only for jobs on campus. Starting next semester, however, the newspaper will also feature job listings for local off-campus businesses. Students have complained about a shortage of jobs, says university administrator Debbie Hess. These new listings will make students aware of more job opportunities and make it easier for them to find a job. The university also expects the new listings will help students find work related to their future careers. Having job experience that is relevant to their career goals, says Hess, will be a great help to students after they graduate.

#record
Female Student: I think this makes a lot of sense.
Male Student: Yeah? 
Female Student: Sure! I remember my first semester here. I applied everywhere: The campus bookstore, the dining hall, the library, but I couldn't get anything. The problem is the few things that are offered by the university are all taken really fast, like, as soon as they're posted. It's really frustrating.
Male Student: I can imagine.
Female Student: Yeah, and even if I'd wanted to look at other places in the area, I wouldn't had known where to start. I didn't know the area at all.
Male Student: So this could really help.
Female Student: Definitely. Especially for first year students who don't really know where else to look. And another thing is, well, like, for example, I have a friend who wants to be a lawyer. The best thing for her would be to learn about how a law office works. Make connections, and meet lawyers, you know? But she's working on campus at the bookstore.
Male Student: Not too helpful.
Female Student: Exactly. I mean sure, she enjoys the bookstore, but there are really no long-term benefits to it.
Male Student: But now…
Female Student: Now, she might actually find something that would look good on her resume once she's applying to law school or looking for a job.

#question
he woman expresses her opinion of the university's plan. Briefly summarize the plan. Then state her opinion about the plan and explain the reasons she gives for holding that opinion.