#article
Customer Lock-in
Many companies design products to work only with their own parts, services, or related products. For example, accessories for a product made by one company will often be designed so that it is not compatible with the accessories for a similar product from another company. The result is that customers who purchase a product from one manufacturer may find themselves dependent on that company as long as they own the product. This situation is known as customer lock-in. The unfortunate result for customers is that they are locked in to continuing to buy from the original company because it can become costly to switch to a different brand for parts or accessories.

#record
Okay, so uh, a lot of companies in the camera industry actually do this. Uh, I’m pretty into photography as a hobby, I love going out and taking pictures the old fashioned way with a 35mm camera. And so a few years ago, I bought a pretty nice camera. It was a, well, I don’t want to name the company, let's just call it Brand A. As I became better at photography, I started purchasing different accessories for the camera. You know, like different lenses and filters, a camera case, etc. for my Brand A camera. Anyway, one day, I dropped and broke my zoom lens, which was pretty expensive. I was looking around for a new one to buy, and saw an advertisement in the paper for a zoom lens I really liked. It was on sale on a discount, and was even much better than the one I had before, although it was made by, uh, a different company, let's call it Brand B. So, I went down to the camera shop and asked the clerk if I could look at it, and that's when I realized that the Brand B lens wasn’t going to fit on my Brand A camera – I wouldn’t be able to attach it. So I ended up having to buy another Brand A lens, even though I didn’t like it as much and it was more expensive – there really wasn’t anything else I could do.

#question
Briefly explain the concept of customer lock-in. How does the professor's experience with the camera illustrate the concept?
