1.	What does the professor mainly discuss?
A.	Why the United States chose federalism over other forms of government
B.	How a federal government differs from a state government
C.	Differing perspectives of a governmental concept
D.	Economic trends that have affected decisions by the United States Supreme Court

2.	What does the professor say about the writers of the United States Constitution?
A.	They favored dual federalism over cooperative federalism.
B.	They were unclear about the role of the Supreme Court.
C.	They wanted to minimize disputes between states.
D.	They wanted the Constitution to be flexible.

3.	What was the significance of the Supreme Court decision regarding a steamboat company in the Gibbons v. Ogden case?
A.	The decision limited the number of businesses that could operate in more than one state.
B.	The decision gave the national government control over commerce between states.
C.	The decision represented the first time the Supreme Court supported dual federalism.
D.	The decision led to regulations that delayed the onset of the Great Depression.
 
4.	According to the professor, what factors led to a change in Supreme Court rulings in the 1930s?	Click on 2 answers
A.	A court case that threatened to close several factories
B.	A national economy that had become highly interconnected
C.	An inability of states to support residents in need of help
D.	A concern that states were failing to regulate industry

5.	What does the professor say about the disagreement over the interpretation of federalism?
A.	It continues to serve an important purpose.
B.	It indicates a failure to learn from past mistakes.
C.	It will probably be resolved in the near future.
D.	It is responsible for slowing down the political process.

6.	Which statements reflect Supreme Court decisions that favored cooperative federalism?	Click on 3 answers
A.	The national government has the power to establish a bank.
B.	National and state governments are equals.
C.	A state government cannot tax a national institution.
D.	States can tax farm equipment imported from other states.
E.	A national law can protect the rights of workers in all states.
