1. What is the lecture mainly about?
  A) How the movement of two-legged animals differs from that of four-legged animals
  B) Possible uses for a robot that can both walk and swim
  C) Why biologists and engineers disagree on a basic principle of locomotion
  D) How observations of an animal are influencing the design of a robot

2. What does the professor imply about the spring-mass model?
  A) It fails to take into account the force of gravity.
  B) It can be extended to include lateral movements in walking.
  C) Its application to robots is limited to certain types of surfaces.
  D) It explains why four-legged locomotion requires more energy than two-legged locomotion.

3. Why does the professor mention spiders and insects?
  A) To imply that they use the same technique to walk on water as basilisk lizards
  B) To emphasize how rare the ability to walk on water is in the animal world
  C) To explain why spiders and insects are attractive prey for basilisk lizards
  D) To point out that different species often evolve similar abilities

4. In the experiment the professor describes, what was the purpose of the floating glass beads?
  A) They helped measure the forces produced by a lizard running on water.
  B) They helped determine the ideal size and weight for robots walking on water.
  C) They were used to record the speed of a lizard crossing the water.
  D) They were used to increase the surface tension of the water.

5. What is the purpose of the air pocket created during the slap phase of the lizard’s stride?
  A) It helps the lizard maintain its balance.
  B) It keeps the lizard from sinking into the water.
  C) It pushes the lizard forward.
  D) It lifts the lizard’s foot out of the water.

6. What is the professor’s opinion of the project to create a robot that can move on the surface of the water?
  A) It showed that mechanizing a natural movement is easier than previously thought.
  B) It should lead to more collaboration between biologists and engineers.
  C) It appropriately focused on applying a concept from nature.
  D) It should have focused more on duplicating the appearance of a lizard.
