L1    Listen to part of a lecture from an animal behavior class.

Professor: Ok, today we‘re going to be looking at animal behavior patterns that involve caching. As you may already know the word caching is related to the word cache. A cache is a hiding place and caching when we say an animal caches, it‘s when the animal stores its food in a hiding place. Now many animals cache their food supplies. Yes, Charles, you have a question?

Charles: Well there‘s something I‘ve always wondered about. When animals cache food, are they really, like, planning for the future? Like when squirrels hide nuts, are they just, you know, hiding nuts because they have some impulse that tells them: "go hide some nuts," or are they really like, thinking about the future, you know, planning ahead so they‘ll have food in the winter?

P: Well, that‘s a great question and there have been some studies that have attempted to find that out. One study, oh, ahhh, well first I should mention a hypothesis about animal behavior called the Bischof-K hler hypothesis. The Bischof-K hler hypothesis is widely accepted today. It states that animals, aside from humans that is, are unable to anticipate future needs, that they‘re only able to think in the present and that any future-oriented behavior is purely instinctive. They behave in certain ways simply because they‘re programmed to, not because they are consciously planning for the future. 

But recently, researchers have been reexamining this hypothesis, and they‘ve been conducting some studies in an attempt to demonstrate that animals, albeit some animals, have an awareness of their future need for food and that they decisively plan for later meals. They‘ve been studying this species of bird known as the western scrub jay. Western scrub jays cache food supplies and in this one study that I read, researchers where trying to determine whether the scrub jays were actually thinking about the future, planning for future needs, when they cache their food. The study is fairly complex, but well, let me just summarize. 

The first phase of the study lasted for six days. On the morning of the first day the jays were put in a compartment of a large cage where they had access to food. So they began to associate that compartment with food in the morning. The researchers called it the breakfast compartment. On the second day the jays were put in a different compartment of the cage where there was no food, so they began to associate that second compartment with no food in the morning. That was the no breakfast compartment. And over the next few days, the researchers continued to alternate the compartments. And the third day, the jays were put in the breakfast compartment. On the fourth day in the no breakfast compartment and so on. So after several days the jays had been trained to distinguish between the breakfast and no breakfast compartments.

Then after that training period in the second phase of the experiment, the jays were given the opportunity to cache food in both compartments. And what do you think happened? Jennifer?

Jennifer: They stored the food in the no breakfast compartment?

P: That‘s right. They stored significantly more food in the no breakfast compartment. So, does this mean they were planning ahead for the next time they‘d be without food in that no breakfast compartment?

Well the researchers also did a second study. An interesting thing about jays is that they‘ll steal from each other‘s food caches if they can. So, what these researchers did was they divided the scrub jays into two groups. While the jays in the first group were caching their food, they were being observed by other birds in the cage but while the jays in the second group were caching their food, there were no other birds around to observe them. Later, all the jays in the first group returned to their caches, dug them up and moved the food to a new location where the food was newly cached. They hid the food again without being observed by other birds. But the jays in the second group, the ones that were not being observed by other birds, they did not recache their food. Maybe because they didn‘t need to since there was no perceived threat of the food being stolen? Well it does look like that first group, the group the recached their food were planning ahead, maximizing their chances of finding food in their cache sometime in the future.

Does mean the Bischof-K hler hypothesis is wrong? Well further research is needed here, and we may never know exactly what mental processes the scrub jays were using in making their decisions, but it does seem likely that they somehow may have been able to behave in such a way as to meet their future needs.

