L2   Listen to part of a lecture in an archeology class.

Professor: One of the biggest cultural shifts in human history was the shift from food gathering cultures to food producing ones. Agriculture was revolutionary because of the life style changes it brought about, and the key factor in this transformation was the domestication of plants. Now what do we mean by plant domestication. Jonathan?

Jonathan: It‘s uhhhh, when you plant and harvest crops yourself, rather than just picking what‘s growing wild.

P: Ok, but, ummm, well mostly is just a part of it, when you plant your own food, work the land, that‘s what we call cultivation and that‘s the first step towards domestication. Domestication involves the actual genetic modification of wild plants so they‘re more beneficial to people, easier to harvest for example. These changes evolve in the plant because of cultivation. 

Ummm, take wheat for instance. Wheat spikelets are attached to the stalk and carry the seeds or grains which people grind into flour. In the naturally growing wild seed, the spikelets fall off the stalk onto the ground all the time. Ok, so you can gather those spikelets after they‘ve fallen and grind up the seed, right? Well, that‘s fine if you have a nomadic life style and can be in the right place at the right time. But if you live a more settled lifestyle you might want to control things a bit. You‘d prefer a type of wheat where the spikelets stay on the stalk until you decide to harvest all that wheat at once. Well, for that to happen, the wild plant has to undergo physical changes so the spikelets don‘t scatter easily and that‘s where cultivation comes in. Because once people start growing plants deliberately, they select ones that sit in coat like, like spikelets that stay attached longer. And when human cultivation results in genetically changed plants, that‘s when you can say those plants have been domesticated.

J: But how long does it take to domesticate plants? How long do they need to be cultivated?

P: Good question. Up until recently, we thought it happened relatively quickly. In fact, in 1990, two researchers made a computer model using data from cultivation experiments and found domestication could occur within 200 years or less. So the consensus among most archeologists was that agriculture appeared rather abruptly, that crops were domesticated shortly after people began cultivating fields, ummmm about 13000 years ago. But more recent data have shown that these assumptions are questionable. In one study, researchers looked at wheat spikelets dating from 10,500 years ago from a site in Turkey. They examined them under a microscope. And, ahhh, on the lower end of some of them where the spikelets attaches to the stalk, the edge wasn‘t smooth, it was jagged. Now, what do you think that means?

J: They were broken off the stalk?

P: Exactly, they didn‘t come off easily. They needed human help. And that‘s a sign of domesticated wheat. And this is the earliest evidence of domesticated wheat that we have. But the research also found spikelets with smooth round edges. Those were from wild food. So wild and domesticated wheat plants were growing together in the earliest cultivated fields. And the researchers concluded that full domestication might have taken longer than previously thought, that wild plants were replaced only gradually by domesticated plants once cultivation had begun. 

Student: So when did people start to cultivate wild food, was it when they realized it could be used to make flour?

P: Well, that‘s another of our long held assumptions. But guess what? At a site in the middle east, evidence was found that the people living there 23,000 years ago, were grinding wild seed and barley to make flour, but there was no evidence whatsoever that they were cultivating plants. Now that was during the last ice age which shows that humans were using wild plants for thousands of years before they switch to cultivation.
Student: Do we know what made them switch?

P: There are different hypothesis. One is that the rise of farming has to do with climate changes that occurred when the last glacial period ended. A milder, more stable climate could have triggered the rise of farming. But many archeologists think that this can‘t be the sole explanation. That other factors might have played a role. Like ah, social changes as hunter-gatherer communities became more sedentary. What makes it so difficult to answer your question is the fact that we‘re looking for a global explanation for agriculture. You see, contrary to an older view that agriculture started out in just two places: the near east and the Americas, archeologists now agree that domestication of plants took place independently in many different parts of the world.
