C2  Listen to a conversation between a student and the university director of student activities.

Dir: So, Jay, a couple of months ago you submitted a proposal form for a trip to Washington DC that the history club is sponsoring and it‘s open to all students on campus?
Jay: Yeah. And since we didn‘t know what kind of response we‘d get, I only listed the trip as tentative on the proposal form, but now, let‘s just say that the response has exceed our expectations and we‘re definitely going.
Dir: That‘s wonderful, but you‘ll need to submit that change to me in writing.
J: Wait, I need to fill out the entire proposal form again? But that‘ll take forever.
Dir: No, no, no. Just a supplemental form for these situations. It‘s pretty easy to fill out. The secretary will give you one on your way out.
J: Oh, whew. A supplemental form. That‘s good. I‘ll pick that up on the way out. 
Now I was thinking about how it would be helpful if the history club could raise some funds for the trip since it‘s going to be a bit more expensive than anticipated. And well, recently I went to a dinner show, you know, where dinner is served while you watch a theatre performance.
Dir: Oh, those are a lot of fun. But, you‘re not suggesting¡­
J: That we do a dinner show as a fund raiser? Actually, we want to do a mystery dinner show as a fund raiser. You see, the audience would get to participate ¡®cause they‘d be, like, trying to solve the mystery. Ahh, like at the beginning of the show, we‘d have a scene that introduced the mystery.
Dir: We, who?
J: We the members of the history club. We‘d be the theatre performers. The whole thing was written by members of the drama club and they‘re willing to let us use it to help out our cause.
Dir: Really. Well that‘s a great idea, working with the drama club. This kind of collaboration can benefit both clubs.
J: I agree. Anyway, the mystery is that a valuable painting has gone missing and members of the audience would, like, work with the other people at their table to figure out how it happened based on the clues that we‘d give them at the beginning of and throughout the show.
Dir: You realize that this is a huge undertaking. I mean, a restaurant. Getting a restaurant with a stage is a challenge. And not to mention publicizing the event. You know, getting the word out so that enough people will come. You‘ll need some money for that too.
J: Well, we‘ve already done a fair amount of preparing. We wanted to make sure it‘d be possible to get everything organized before I came to you with the idea. I know we‘d need you to approve it though.
Dir: Well, do you think you‘ll be able to pull it off and make a profit?
J: Yeah, we found a local restaurant that‘s willing to host the event at a discounted price. And we figured out all the cost to us and how much we‘d charge for admission. And it all seems really promising.
Dir: Ok, it sounds pretty ambitious, but I think it has potential.
