#article
  The common starling is a medium-sized bird native to Europe and Asia. The starling was introduced to North America about a hundred years ago, and since then its population in North America has grown extremely large. In North America, many people consider the starling to be a particularly harmful invasive species, for several reasons.

    Agricultural Damage
    Starlings are known to cause agricultural damage because they eat products grown on farms. Starlings dig up and eat the young plants and seeds of grain crops. Starlings also eat a wide variety of cultivated fruits and berries.

    Flocks Pose Danger to Aircraft
    Starlings have a natural instinct to congregate in flocks. Flocks of starlings, often numbering thousands of individuals, roost (rest) and feed together. Starling flocks that roost near airports represent a danger to aircraft. Starling flocks that take off from their roosting sites can easily cross paths with passing aircraft. While striking one bird usually causes only minor damage to an aircraft, a dense flock of thousands of birds can cause an aircraft to crash. For this reason, starlings represent a substantial problem to airport management.

    Competition with Endangered Species
    Starlings can be dangerous competitors to native North American bird species that nest in holes or cavities, particularly to endangered bird species. To support populations of endangered bird species, people often build artificial nest boxes, which are hollow wooden boxes with an opening. Starlings are known to occupy nest boxes intended for other birds or even steal them from other birds by chasing out the previous occupants. In this way, starlings often interfere with human efforts to protect and support endangered local species.



#record
Now listen to part of a lecture on the topic you just read about

(male professor) Starlings in North America are not the big problem that some people make them out to be.

First, yes, starlings eat some farm products. But starlings counterbalance this harm by bringing the farmers some benefits, too. For example, starlings can reduce the need for pesticides, chemicals used to control insect pests. You see, starlings don’t feed just on crops but also on insects that damage the farmer's crops. If there’re starlings around, farmers don’t need to use as much pesticide as they usually do to control insect pests. Using less pesticide saves farmers money and also creates an environmental benefit, since some pesticides are bad for the environment and even for human health.

Next, starlings roosting near airports can cause trouble. But we can reduce this risk by taking advantage of starlings’ flocking instinct, the instinct to flock together. You see, you can bring a large cage to the area, a couple of meters tall and wide, several meters long and put a few starlings inside this large cage. The starlings inside the cage could be feeding on something. This cage is constructed as a trap. When the other starlings in the area outside see the starlings feeding in the cage, their flocking instinct will tell them to form a flock by joining those starlings in the cage. And when they enter the cage, they become trapped. We can capture thousands of starlings living near airports this way and move them to other less dangerous locations.

Finally, we can prevent starlings from taking over the nest boxes intended for endangered local birds. Starlings are bigger than many native North American birds. So they cannot fit inside artificial nest boxes that had small entrances. Building nest boxes with small will prevent starlings from nesting in them. Many native birds will use a nest box with a hole smaller than four centimeters, but starlings are not able to use such a small entrance.
#question
Summarize the points made in the lecture, being sure to explain how they respond to the specific concerns presented in the reading passage.
