(man) Excuse me, Professor Hawk?(woman) Hi, James, what do you need? I hope you’re not here to ask for an extension on the final paper. I’ve had three of those requests already this morning and I did make it clear several weeks ago that this assignment really should be in on time.(man) Oh, uh, I just have to finish my bibliography. I’ll definitely have it done by Monday.(woman) Great! Just a reminder, did you get the worksheet I handed out last time, showing how to format the references in your bibliography? After all the effort of planning and research, doing all the reading and, of course, writing and editing the paper, I don’t want to see anyone losing points on the references, since, you know, a properly organized bibliography’s worth fifteen percent of your overall grade.(man) Yeah, I have it. I’ll make sure to double check, thanks. Uh, I actually came to see you about something else.(woman) Oh?(man) You’re my academic adviser, so,(woman) Ah, an advising question, go ahead.(man) Well, a while back, I applied for this internship with a newspaper in town, as an editorial intern. So, I get to work on real articles and everything. I wasn’t really expecting to get it, since I still have another year of college to go. But I was surprised, I got the internship.(woman) That’s great, James, for this summer?(man) Actually, it’s for next fall and it’s full-time, too. So, if I accept it, and I really what to accept it, well, I need to take a semester off. Do you think that’s possible?(woman) Uh, it’s possible, but that’s a big decision, James.(man) I know. The thing is, it’s a great opportunity. My friend always says, uh, my friend Jenny is a reporter now, and she says that her internship was one of the best experiences she has as an undergrad, since it let her apply what she learned in school to the context of her future career. Plus, it gave her an edge when she started applying for jobs. I’d love to secure a job right after I graduate.(woman) Well, an internship doesn’t necessarily guarantee you a job offer. Plus, taking time off can cause some students to lose focus on their studies. Don’t forget that when you come back in the spring, it’s to academics, no matter how exciting the lure of working and making money seems now.(man) Actually, that’s why I want to do it. I’ve been feeling kind of burnt out lately, with all the schoolwork, so I think a real job experience would be energizing, especially since it’s related to my classes. It might just be the break I need to come back to my final year of school with, like, renewed energy, you know?(woman) Well, if you’re sure about your decision(man) I am.(woman) OK, uh, could you request or get the paperwork for time off from the registrar? We can set up an appointment to fill it out together.(man) Thanks, Professor Hawk. I really appreciate it.