Listen to part of a lecture in an Astronomy class(male professor) Many astronomical conclusions have been based on the assumption that the planets in our solar system formed in the exact orbits that they’re currently in. So, it's significant that over recent decades an idea has been gaining momentum that the orbits of planets have changed since the solar system first formed, either gotten slightly larger or slightly smaller, what's called planetary migration.The hypothesis of planetary migration might seem far-fetched at first but it's not implausible. We’re pretty certain that the orbits of smaller celestial bodies like asteroids and planetesimals, even Earth's Moon, have changed since the solar system formed. The Moon, in particular, is ten times farther from Earth now than it was when it formed. So if the Moon's orbit could change, why couldn’t planets’ orbits do the same?Let's consider the four gas-giants, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune. According to the migration hypothesis, when these gas planets were forming, millions of planetesimals, small bodies of rock and ice, remained in their midst. The planets and planetesimals exerted gravitational forces on one another and, as a result of these gravitational interactions, well, some planetesimals got pulled into the cores of gas-giants but the majority of planetesimals got scattered, ejected from the solar system.These gravitational interactions also nudged the gas-giants into new orbits. Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune all gained orbital energy through this process. Their orbits expanded. They migrated a bit farther away from the Sun. Jupiter, on the other hand, probably due to its massive size, lost orbital energy, so it migrated slightly closer to the Sun. So, that's the theory. But what's the evidence that it actually happened?To answer this question, let's focus on Jupiter and Saturn and on the asteroid belt. Now, the asteroid belt is that small region between Mars and Jupiter that's filled with asteroids and the asteroids are spread fairly evenly throughout the belt, except in a few regions where there are gaps, where there aren’t any asteroids. These gaps could be the result of asteroids having been ejected as a result of the gravitational influence of Jupiter and Saturn. But this could happen only if those two planets had moved; migrated from one orbit into another.Now, this idea was tested by means of a computer simulation. A computer model was created of the solar system, with the hypothetical missing asteroids filled in, with Jupiter and Saturn in their presumed old orbits, and with gravitational interactions between the planets and the asteroids factored in. Calculation showed that when the orbits of the asteroids brought them close to Jupiter and Saturn in their old orbits, some asteroids would have been hurled out of the asteroid belt. And the resulting asteroid belt from the simulation looked quite similar to the actual asteroid belt now with gaps in the same places. And Jupiter and Saturn ended up in the orbits they’re in now.More concrete support for planetary migration comes from the discovery of other solar systems with large Jupiter-like planets that are not what we think they should be. You see, a planet as large as Jupiter cannot develop close to its sun, because when gas-giants are still forming, they pick up mass by pulling in dust and gas as they orbit their sun. That's how they grow. Well, if a planet were to form very close to its sun, its orbit would be small and it passes through a small volume of space. So it would pick up only a relatively small amount of dust and gas, which means its mass would be small.For a planet to grow to Jupiter's size, it has to start out far from the sun, because only in a large orbit could it encounter enough gas and dust to grow to a massive size. And, in fact, our Jupiter has always been far from our Sun. But, we’ve discovered what are called hot Jupiters in other solar systems. These are planets that are similar in size and makeup to our own Jupiter but are very close to their suns, closer than the planet Mercury is to our Sun. So, they are very hot. They’re far too close to their suns to have formed in these positions. But, one way to explain the current positions of these hot Jupiters is to say they formed farther out and then migrated to their current Mercury-like positions.