Listen to part of a lecture in a Music Appreciation class(male professor) For today, I asked you to read the introductory chapter about opera in the European tradition. So, who can tell us what opera is? Roger?(male student) Well, except for being sung, it's a lot like theater; tells a story.(professor) That's a very important point. Opera tells a story. And, yes, Jenny?(female student) But how do you get the story if you can’t understand what they’re saying?(professor) Ah, you mean because so many classic operas were written in other languages?(female student) I can’t even understand the ones in English. I just can’t make out the words.(professor) You know, you’re not the first person to complain about this. In fact, there's a recent study that sheds some light on what you’ve experienced. You see there's a way of setting text to music so the words are easier to understand. According to the study, it has to do with vowel pitch matching.Vowel pitch matching means pitches, musical notes, are assigned to vowels in words. Higher notes work better with certain kinds of vowels, lower notes with others. And the study examined whether or not four different composers took this into account when they wrote their operas. Did they write texts so their listeners could easily understand the sung words? The researchers looked at passages from the soprano parts in these composers’ operas, sopranos sing the highest notes so vowel pitch matching would be most beneficial in these parts.Uh, before we get to the results, we need to talk a bit about the physics of speech. How do human voice works? Now, any time you speak or sing, for that matter, you’re basically expelling air. This air starts in your lungs and eventually passes out through your mouth or nose. But in between it passes through two important regions, the vocal cords and the vocal tract.The vocal cords, two folds of muscle in your throat, vibrate creating a sound wave and this sound wave then passes through your vocal tract, which is the entire air passage lined between vocal cords and the mouth or nose. Now, as it passes through, it kind of bounces around inside the vocal tract, off of your tongue, you jaw, the roof of your mouth. And depending on how these are shaped at the time, that's gonna affect which vowel sound you hear. Some vowel sounds depend largely on how open your jaw is. An open jaw produces an “ah” sound, for instance, like in “father”; while a closed jaw produces for, say, the “oo” sound in “food.”Now, for singers, changing the shape of vocal tract also allows for greater volume of sound, essentially high notes sound louder with an open jaw and if a vowel requires a singer to sing a high note with a closed jaw, she’ll usually adjust by opening her mouth a little bit more to increase the volume of the note. But that changes the characteristic vowel sound and makes it harder to understand the word. That means a singer sacrifices meaning for the sake of volume.(female student) So composers actually try to avoid this problem using vowel pitch matching?(professor) Well, that's what the researchers wanted to know. They documented every vowel in those soprano passages and the pitch that was assigned to it. The question being, “How many times did each composer pair high notes with open-jawed vowels?” And statistically speaking, only one of them clearly used vowel pitch matching, Richard Wagner.Wagner was a German composer who was active between the 1840s and the 1870s. He has a reputation as a composer of difficult music for singers especially sopranos singing in the highest ranges. So vowel pitch matching would make these parts somewhat easier to sing and understand.(male student) But why didn’t the other composers do it?(professor) Well, for Wagner, the plot was extremely important. Wagner's singers are called upon to constantly advanced stories that are quite complex with long explanatory passages, while other composers wrote repetitive passages to rehash the plot. Also, Wagner's music calls for larger orchestras. So if the singer needs to be heard in the back row of the theater, she's really going to need consistently high volume.Now, does this make Wagner a better composer than the rest? Well, his operas are different but all four composers in the study produced masterpieces of western music. I suppose it depends on what you’re looking for, considering the different music styles and stories the operas present.