Listen to a conversation between a student and a residence hall director(man) Hi, Tina, sorry I had to give you more hours in the office than you asked for, but, so many of the other resident assistants need time off to study for midterm exams.(woman) No, that’s fine. I don’t mind. I’ve only got one midterm.(man) Great! I’m glad to hear that.(woman) I, uh, about that summer camp job I’m applying for, the one I told you about last week.(man) Oh, right, that letter of recommendation, sorry, I haven’t finished it yet.(woman) No worries, the application deadline is not until next month. I was just wondering if you had everything you need.(man) Yeah, I was gonna email you. I would like some more details about the camp and your motivation.(woman) Sure, um, the summer camp’s run by the education department and I’m an education major, so,(man) It’ll give you some good experience then.(woman) Right(man) I know the engineering department runs a summer program for high school students. My daughter participated last year, but I didn’t realize there was a regular day camp here for younger kids.(woman) Yeah, they come to campus Monday through Friday for different educational activities. And, hopefully, it’ll get them thinking about enrolling here someday.(man) I see. So, besides your work here as a resident assistant, I’ll mention your major. Anything else you think I should include?(woman) Um, do you know about the community garden near the library?(man) Yeah, I just read about it in the campus newspaper actually. What’s that got to do with?(woman) I helped to get it started and now I’m in charge of recruiting the volunteers.(man) Really?(woman) Yeah, I’ve already signed up a lot of students like me who love gardening. Um, I grew tomatoes and other veges, you know, at home. We’ve got some agriculture and biology majors involved, too, and even some professors from those departments.(man) Seems like a lot of work, though, coordinating so many people?(woman) Yeah, in the beginning, it was a ton of work, finding a site, tilling and planting, and keeping everybody on schedule. But now that the plants are sprouting, I’m hoping it’ll attract more people to keep it going. Anyway, since I helped organize that project, I think it could help my application if you wrote about that. I’d love the campers to spend a couple of hours a week there, you know, to learn about gardening.(man) Great idea! You know with your experience helping students in the residence hall, and you involvement in the gardening project, it sounds like you’ll be a top pick to work in that camp.(woman) I wish I had that much confidence. I know I’d be great at this, but tons of students are applying to be camp counselors.(man) Well, good luck then