Listen to part of a lecture in a Marketing class(female professor) Now, it's not uncommon to see a celebrity advertising a product, right? A popular basketball player endorsing shoes, a beautiful actress selling shampoo, marketers use the appeal of that person to sell their products. Another tactic is to use art in advertising. This is called art infusion.The idea of art infusion is that when a piece of art is associated with a product, some of its, um, qualities or prestige spills over onto the product and actually changes how consumers evaluate it. We’ve long assumed this to be the case, but it was never studied systematically until recently when two university researchers designed some experiments to test the phenomenon. But before I describe those studies, let's talk about how we’re defining art, because, of course, the question of what art really is has been debated by philosophers for centuries. But, this isn’t a philosophy class. For our purposes, art is what the consumer says it is.To define art for their experiments, the researchers conducted some screenings where they asked people to evaluate whether they considered an image to be art or not. In general, they found that people considered images representing what we might call expression for its own sake, work without any additional function, to be art. But, they were also more likely to rate an image as art if they thought creating it involved skill, if they couldn’t do it, for example.So, for their first experiment, the researchers first looked to see how the public would respond to paintings versus photos. So, they asked twenty people to rate two images with similar content side by side: one, a painting of an outdoor café by a famous artist Vincent Van Gogh and the other a photograph of an outdoor café. And they found that the famous painting was much more likely to be viewed as art than the photograph.So, then, each image, the painting and the photograph, was printed on the lid of a black velvet box so that the two boxes were identical except for the image. And then the researchers introduced the product, silverware. The researchers showed the set of silverware to customers at a restaurant. The silverware was the same each time but half the customers saw it presented in the box with the painting and the other half saw it in the box with the photograph. The image on the lid was visible before the box was opened.Then, the customers were asked to give a general rating of the product. Did they like it or not, and also to rate it in terms of its perceived status or prestige. The results showed that the silverware was consistently rated higher on both counts when it was presented in the box with the painting. So, this first experiment supported the art infusion effect, something about that painting's status as art seem to positively affect the silverware's ratings.But, what's especially helpful about this experiment is that it was conducted in a crowded restaurant not in a lab. So it basically reproduces the same level of distraction that consumers experience when evaluating actual products in the marketplace. That degree of realism says a lot about the accuracy of these results in my opinion.OK, so, then the researchers wanted to find out if the content of a painting mattered or was it just enough that it was a work of art. So, they conducted a second experiment using three images: two famous paintings and one photograph. Pre-experiment screenings identified the paintings as art and the photograph as non-art. The screenings also identified the content of the paintings as either positive or negative. One painting had positive content, buildings overlooking a canal and one had negative content, burning buildings on the banks of a river. The photograph had similar content to the positive art image.To replicate the first study, each of these three images was placed on an identical bottle of hand soap and each soap was then rated by participants. Well, as with the silverware, the product with a non-art image was the lowest rated. But more interesting is that the fact the soap with the negative content image, the painting with the fire, was rated just as high as the one with the positive canal scene. This suggests that the art infusion effect is content independent, that is, regardless of what the subject of that art actually is, product ratings are positively affected by association with an art image.