Listen to part of a lecture in an Environmental Science class(female professor) OK, at the end of class yesterday, I mentioned a kind of wasp, not what you would normally think of when you think wasp. These are tiny insects barely visible. They are known as parasitoid wasps.Parasitoid wasps are very numerous and widespread. They can be found all over the world and they feed off of many different species of harmful insects that damage crops like moths, butterflies, flies. The wasps inject venom into the targeted insect to paralyze it and lay their eggs in the insect, which then serves as food for the young wasps when they emerge from the eggs.Now, parasitoid wasps are very picky eaters. They are almost all host-specific. So an individual species of wasp prefers only one or two host insect species. And in addition to that, they are as diverse as the species they invade. Both facts make them ideal candidates for biological pest control, which is why I mentioned them. Biological pest control is an approach that uses living organisms like insects to control pests, particularly in agriculture. It's a much more environmentally friendly; it can be a preferable alternative to synthetic pesticides, which kill not only the targeted organism but many others as well.Now, governments have been using parasitoid wasps for years. For example, cassava, a type of root vegetable, is a staple crop in Africa. It was imported there from South America by about 400 years ago. It's particularly reliable because it can grow where most other crops can’t. But in the 1970s, the cassava mealy bug, a bug that eats cassava, was accidentally introduced. Within ten years, 80 percent of the cassava crop was lost. So researchers looked for and found a wasp that targeted the mealy bug and they introduced it into thirty African countries where it solved the mealy bug problem.And stories like these are not unusual. In the late 1800s, the cabbage butterfly invaded North America, attacking kale and cabbage crops. After some unsuccessful introductions of different wasp species over the years, in the 1980s a wasp from China was introduced and that did the trick.(male student) Isn’t that risky, though, introducing a non-native species? I thought, in general, that wasn’t such a good idea, especially from an environmental perspective.(professor) Yes, good point. You have to make sure that whatever wasp you introduce won’t become a pest. But, in fact, these wasps are used to control invasive species. You just have to find the right wasp. And because of recent technological advancements many new species of these wasps have been identified in the past few years, about sixty thousand, and we believe that's just a start. Since many of the wasps looked practically identical, the number of species had previously been greatly underestimated.(male student) That's an incredible figure. But are parasitoid wasps more diverse than beetles? I thought there were more species of beetles than any other insect.(professor) Well, you’re right in that more species of beetles have been identified than of any other insect. But it's looking like this new wasp research could change that. Now, what's also quite exciting for entomologists is their work with the genome, in other words, the genetic information, the entire set of genetic information of the parasitoid.The genomes of three separate species of the parasitoid wasps have been a focus. And now those genomes have been correctly sequenced, the order of the genetic information has been identified. So this will serve as a kind of genetic resource. Researchers have already located the region of the genome that controls host preference. Once they’re able to pin down the specific genes that determine what insect a given species of parasitoid wasps targets, it will give some insight into how the different parasitoid wasps varieties branched off, how speciation occurred.Additionally, genetic information about the properties of the venom of the parasitoid wasps might be useful in the development of new drugs. The wasp venom studied contained 79 proteins and turns out that 23 of those are completely new to scientists.(female student) It's interesting that considering how important these wasps seem in a lab and out of it, I mean, how come we never hear about them?(professor) Well, it's not really all that surprising. In the past, they’ve been, well, understudied, to say the least, and not many people knew about their importance.