1. The word 'pondered' in the passage is closest in meaning to A) explained B) argued over C) thought about D) understood 2. The word 'fundamental' in the passage is closest in meaning toA) famous B) basic C) revolutionary D) original 3. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information. A) Aristotle used the concept of the Golden Age to explain how the pure beauty of nature could be recreated in a new, carefully planned state. B) During the Golden Age of Aristotle's time, human activities such as landscape planning and art reached the height of creativity. C) In ancient Greek thought, both art and nature were characterized by purity and wholesomeness within a Golden Age. D) During Aristotle's time, the idea that nature is pure and distinct from civilization was expressed in the idea of the perfect Golden Age, which influenced both art and landscape design.4. In paragraph 1. why does the author include the quotation from The Odyssey? A) To support the idea that modem ideas about nature have not changed much  since the ancient Greeks B) To contrast Homer's ideas about nature with those of Aristotle C) To argue that the adoption of agriculture advanced Greek culture D) To give an example of an ancient Greek description of the Golden Age Paragraph 1 is marked with an arrow 5. In paragraph 2, the author quotes Pliny the Elder in order to support the claim that A) only simply country people believed in gods who lived in forests B) Greek beliefs about forests differed from Roman beliefs about forests C) sacred groves had mystical meanings because of their association with gods D) Greeks were more interested in nature than in spirituality 6. What is the purpose of paragraph 3 in the larger discussion of ancient Greek beliefs? A) To connect the Greek view of nature to the associations between nature and religion that exist in many different cultures in the world B) To contrast the history and development of Greek religion to the development of other religions of the time C) To demonstrate the influences of Greek beliefs on other religions D) To argue that ancient religions eventually rejected the spirituality of trees 7. It can be inferred from paragraph A that the ancient Greeks believed that their gods A) resided only in celestial space B) actually lived on Earth C) did not exist in prehistoric times  D) were only representations of ideas 8. The word 'mandated' in the passage is closest in meaning to A) contributed to B) produced C) limited D) required9. All of the following are mentioned in paragraph 5 as ways the Greeks protected their sacred groves EXCEPT A) by building protective walls around the groves B) by allowing only priests in sacred groves C) by punishing those who cut trees, hunted, or fished in the groves D) by telling people that the gods could punish vandals of the groves 10. The word 'promoted' in the passage is closest in meaning to A) repeatedB) altered C) encouraged D) performed 11. Why are the sacred groves of the ancient Greeks referred to as 'imperfect parkscapes' in the passage? A) The Greeks protected their sacred groves from deforestation and erosion but allowed people to build houses on the grounds B) The ancient Greeks often changed the environment of the groves by adding plants, building shrines, and capturing animals for sacrifice. C) The Greeks allowed only religious ceremonies in the groves D) The ancient Greeks had strict size limits on how big a sacred area could be 12. Which of the following is NOT mentioned in paragraph 6 as a change made to the landscapes of sacred groves? A) The introduction of new animals to the area B) The construction of statues and fountains C) The planting of flowers D) The creation of trails 13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage     This, however, was not the Greek attitude.     Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square [■]to add the sentence to the passage. 14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they egress ideas mat are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage.This question is worth 2 points. Drag your choices to the spaces where they belong. To review the passage, click on View Text. Ancient Greeks and Romans thought of parks and natural spaces as spiritual and recreational sites. Answer Choices A) Sacred groves consisting of trees, springs, or mountains were organized as shrines to Greek gods. B) The belief in a divine presence in all natural things originated with the ancient Greeks and spread to other cultures around the world. C) In cultures where the climate made cultivation of sacred groves impossible, trees retained only a symbolic value in mythical stories.  D) Because of their association with ancient Greek gods, spirits, and heroes, there are still many sections of forest in modem Greece. E) Trees have played significant roles in the religious practices and beliefs of Greeks and numerous other cultures. F) Because groves were spiritually important to ancient Greeks, they were often protected from damage and were the sites of various commun