1. The word ‘signifying' in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) Creating B) indicating  C) initiating   D) requiring 2. The word ‘ceased 'in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) slowed down  B) accelerated  C) stopped  D) changed in style 3. According to paragraph 1, all of the following provide evidence that the Bonito phase was a time of immense cooperative effort EXCEPT  A) the large amounts of material needed  B) the size of the Pueblo Bonito complex  C) the unusual materials used in construction  D) the distance the materials needed to be transported 4. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning m important ways or leave out essential information.  A) Researchers have tried to establish why an area as dry as Chaco was the site of such large construction efforts  B) Researchers have tried to establish whether the concentration of massive construction protects in a brief period of time made Chaco the dry area that it is today  C) Researchers have established that Chaco's brief growing season required a concentration of labor to produce large quantities of food m a short period of time. D) Researchers have established that the hot, dry climate of Chaco forced workers to complete construction on large buildings in short periods of time. 5. According to paragraph 2, before 1970, scholars believed that Chacoan society collapsed because  A) Chaco never had the forests that were needed for the development of a stable agricultural economy  B) farmers used up the natural resources in Chaco that had originally allowed the society to succeed  C) Chaco suffered a longFterm drought that prevented farmers from growing enough food  D) laborers left Chaco to find other work after they finished building the great houses there 6. It can be inferred from paragraph 2 that the preF1970s theory about the Chaco Phenomenon  A) was based on the widespread farm and tool remains found by archaeologists on the site  B) was largely reinforced by findings in the 1980s  C) was not supported by substantial evidence  D) was so strong that it went unchallenged for many decades 7. The word 'dispersed' in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) connected  B) scattered  C) stable  D) developed 8. According to paragraph 2, why did scientists change their view about the cause of the collapse of Chacoan society?  A) They found evidence that Chaco had always lacked trees and good soil  B) They discovered that Chaco Canyon was much drier than they had previously believed  C) They learned that the population was not large enough to supply the laborers needed to build the great houses.  D) They found evidence that the farming economy was excessively concentrated in the central canyon 9. According to paragraphs 3 and 4, which of the following best describes how archaeologists arrived at their current view of the nature of Chaco during the Bonito phase?  A) They discovered a large number of kivas, which probably served as temporary houses for pilgrims on their way to the main temple  B) They found a series of paths leading to the outliers, which seem to have been centers of trade for makers of jewelry and other products.  C) They found turquoise beads and pendants and other valuable objects, leading to the theory that the great houses were wealthy residences  D) They discovered many objects and rooms associated with ritual activity, leading to the theory that Chaco was a religious center. 10. The word 'function' in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) center  B) practic  C) design  D) purpose 11. According to paragraph 5, what is the possible significance of new geological field studies in Chaco?  A) They indicate that during the construction boom the Chaco area probably did have enough water and sediment to attract farmers to that area  B) They could undermine the theory of Chaco as a religious center  C) They show the presence of excessive amounts of water, which may have led to the departure of most of the people living there during the Bonito phase  D) They suggest that the kind of sediment present in Chaco in the eleventh century was not favorable for agriculture 12. Why does the author state that ‘A large natural lake may have existed at the western end of Chaco, near the biggest concentration of great houses'?  A) To suggest that geological studies are better than archaeological studies in identifying the historical uses of land  B) To demonstrate that large construction projects require a large population of workers  C) To support the idea that Chaco may have been favorable to agriculture during the Bonito phase  D) To show that the Chacoan people preferred to build their homes near water 13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage Scholars have attempted to find a reason for this weblikearrangement of great houses around a central canyon. Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square []to add the sentence to the passage. 14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they egress ideas mat are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points. Drag your choices to the spaces where they belong. To review the passage, click on View Text. The population of the Chaco Canyon in New Mexico changed significantly between th tenth and eleventh centuries, as evidenced by the remains of its great houses. Answer Choices  A) Before the 1970s, scholars believed that the fail of Chacoan society was caused by farmer's cutting down all the trees to build their great houses.  B)After discovering trails connecting Chaco to surrounding communities, scholars came to believe that there were many forested oases to support those communities.  C)Archaeological evidence has led current scholars to believe that Chaco was a   religious center during the Bonito phase.  D)Archaeological findings indicate that Chaco Canyon was completely abandoned by the end of the thirteenth century.  E)Researchers' findings in the 1980s revealed that Chaco Canyon had been a fertile agricultural area that caused the population near the center of the canyon to increase steadily during the Bonito phase.  F)Recent geological studies indicating the presence of water in Chaco Canyon in the eleventh century may alter s scholars' belief that the area was not favorable for farming. 