1. The word 'alleged' in the passage is closest in meaning to A) scattered B) supposed C) isolated D) exposed 2. Paragraph 1 answers which of the following questions about parentalcare in dinosaurs? A) Which type of parental care was more important for the survival of dinosaur young, prehatching care or posthatching care? B) Why were dinosaur remains in eastern Montana preserved rather than destroyed over time? C) Did Maiasaura hadrosaurs provide types of parental care not provided by other dinosaurs? D) What evidence supports the view that Maiasaura females laid their eggs in nests? 3. According to paragraphs 1 and 2, the fossil record most clearly shows that dinosaurs engaged in which of the following behaviors? A) Laying eggs in nests B) Hiding eggs C) Feeding young D) Storing food 4. According to paragraph 2, which of the following supports the theory that the Maiasaura incubated their eggs? A) The examination of embryos found in some eggs B) The large concentration of nests in one location C) The amount of space between nests D) The discovery of adult Maiasaura bones on top of egg clutches 5. The word 'controversial' in the passage is closest in meaning to A) limited B) convincing C) relevant D) debatable 6. The word 'inconclusive' in the passage is closest in meaning to A) not decisive B) insignificant C) not valid D) misleading 7. According to paragraph 3, the patterns of wear found on the teeth of young dinosaurs may indicate which of the following? A) Baby dinosaurs were eating food brought to them by their parents. B) Early development of jaw and teeth varied according to a dinosaur's size. C) Dinosaurs went foraging for food at an earl/ age D) Baby dinosaurs did not begin to eat solid food until after they left the nest 8. In paragraph 3, why does the author mention that baby archosaursground their teeth inside the egg? A) To support the claim that baby dinosaurs in the egg shared certain behaviors with human babies before birthB) To contrast the behavior of baby archosaurs with that of other types of dinosaurs C) To cast doubt on the claim that adult dinosaurs fed their hatchlings in the nest D) To explain why the teeth of baby archosaurs were more worn than those of other juveniles 9. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information. A) The simplest explanation for the similarities between birds and crocodiles is that they evolved at the same time B) A common ancestor is probably the source ofthe shared trails of crocodiles and birds C) The originally similar traits of birds and crocodiles increased after evolving through a shared ancestor. D) Only one shared pattern of behavior—that of nest building—was present in the common ancestor of birds and crocodiles. 10. The word 'elaborate' in the passage is closest in meaning to A) widespread B) reliable C) well developed D) long lasting 11. Paragraph 4 answers all of the following questions about crocodiles EXCEPT: A)  What is the evidence that crocodiles are caring parents? B)  Why do crocodile parents communicate with the young inside their eggs? 
C)  What is a possible reason for the highFfrequency sounds that crocodiles make inside their eggs? D) How do crocodiles participate in the hatching process of their young? 12. In paragraph 4, the author discusses birds and crocodiles in order to A) contrast patterns of parenting behavior in both living and extinct animals B) provide evidence that sophisticated parental care behaviors evolved only relatively recently C) demonstrate that parental care behaviors have continued to evolve since the time of the dinosaurs D) support the theory that extinct dinosaurs probably inherited some kind of parental care system 13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage Evidence of the former is easier to find than that of the latter. Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square [■]to add the sentence to the passage. 14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they egress ideas mat are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage.This question is worth 2 points. Drag your choices to the spaces where they belong. To review the passage, click on View Text. Scientists must use indirect evidence to determine whether extinct dinosaurs cared for their young. Answer Choices A) Because baby dinosaur bones and eggs v/ere very delicate, there are relatively few preserved as fossils, so little is known about dinosaur young. B) Fossils from sites like Egg Mountain indicate that dinosaurs built nests, and perhaps that they incubated their eggs and fed their hatchlings. C) Fossil evidence such as the spacing of nests may indicate advanced parental care but can have different interpretations. D) Tightly packed Oviraptor rookeries indicate that dinosaurs may have tended to nest in large colonies in order to better protect both eggs and hatchlings. E) Discovery of hadrosaur bones of different sizes in the same nest may indicate that, in some species, older siblings took care of younger F) The strongest evidence comes from extinct dinosaurs' nearest living relatives, birds and crocodiles, who do engage in many forms of parental care. 