1 The word modify in the passage is closest in meaning toA) Obtain  B) Change C) Replace D) absorb2. The word drastically in the passage is closest in meaning to A) gradually B) permanently C) extensively D) possibly  3. Paragraph 1 supports all of the following statements about fluids EXCEPT: A) They can chemically react with particles on a planet's surface. B) Most of their mass does not flow but remains in place. C) Their movement can reshape the surface of certain kinds of planets. D) Their movement is driven by the Sun and by gravity.  4. The word prohibit in the passage is closest in meaning to A) prevent B) speed up C) affect D) encourage  5. According to paragraph 2, what is one difference between Earth and Venus? A) Earth has less water in its atmosphere than Venus does. B) Earth has a hydrologic system, but Venus does not. C) Earth is less geologically active than Venus is. D) Earth has more carbon dioxide than Venus does.  6. It can be inferred from paragraph 2 that Earth evolved differently than Venus did in part because A) there was more volcanic activity on early Venus than on early Earth B) they received different amounts of solar energyC) their interiors contained different amounts of heat D) their early atmospheres contained different levels of oxygen and nitrogen  7. According to paragraph 2, all of the following played a role in keeping carbon dioxide levels high in the atmosphere of Venus EXCEPTA) the breaking apart of water molecules by ultraviolet raysB) the evaporation of water released from the planet's interior C) the escape of hydrogen into spaceD) the release of molecules from melting metals such as lead 8. The word ultimately in the passage is closest in meaning A) finally B) slowly C) repeatedly D) constantly  9. According to paragraph 3, why is water able to move so freely on Earth? A) Earth's temperatures are such that water exists in solid, liquid, and gas forms. B) Earth is large enough to be geologically active and for its gravitational field to hold an atmosphere.C) Earth's surface allows river valleys to develop across the landscape.D) Earth has active winds that blow across seas and oceans, causing fluid movements. 10. Why does the author point out that on Earth gases in the atmosphere or water react with rocks at the surface to form new chemical compoundsA) To explain why scientists believe that few areas on Earth have been untouched by flowing water B) To identify one of several ways in which the movement of fluids can affect the surface of a planetC) To provide evidence that fluid movements are caused by gravity flow systems energized by the SunD) To identify an effect of wind scouring fine particles away from large areas 11. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage. Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.A) Life on Earth is responsible for many changes to the planet's surface, including blankets of greenery. B) Self-replicating molecules of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen led to the development of life early in Earth's history.C) The presence of water made it possible for life to develop early in Earth's history and to significantly change its surface. D) Early in life's history on Earth, self-replicating molecules of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen began blanketing the surface in greenery. 12. According to paragraph 3, Earth's surface is different from the surfaces of many other planetary bodies in which of the following ways.A) It is more strongly marked by river valleys and erosion.B) It is more geologically active. C) It is covered by impact craters. D) It has an atmosphere. 13. Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage Venus may not have always been this way. Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square [■]to add the sentence to the passage. 14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they egress ideas mat are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage.This question is worth 2 points. Drag your choices to the spaces where they belong. To review the passage, click on View Text. A) Although Venus is about the same size as Earth, its greater volcanic activity has added considerably to carbon dioxide levels in its atmosphere.  B) Because Venus lost the water it originally had, most of its carbon dioxide remained in its atmosphere, causing the planet to become very warm. C) Like Venus, Earth has an atmosphere, but Earth's atmosphere has far more oxygen and nitrogen than does the atmosphere of Venus. D) On Earth, the dominance of river valley landscapes and the existence of life are due to the planet's hydrologic cycle. E) On Earth, chemical reactions involving fluids remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere by giving rise to carbonate rocks, and winds energized by gravity flow systems move fine particles from one place to another. F) The evaporation of liquid water from Earth's surface is largely limited by the life forms that have developed, particularly the vegetation.  