1. According to paragraph 1, which of the following is true about Europe in the nineteenth century A. A large increase in food production led to industrialization. B. Population changes occurred at the same pace in the major regions. C. The standard of living rose to the level of that in most parts of the world. D. The tremendous rise in population led to greater agricultural output in every region. 2. According to paragraph 2, which of the following caused the food supply to increase in most of Western Europe during the nineteenth century A. Replacement of seventeenth-century farming techniques with more modern ones  B. Improved grain harvests in most European countries  C. Reduced demand for food as a result of a decreased population  D. Use of new land to grow crops  3. In paragraph 2, why does the author mention the potato blight that occurred in Ireland? A. To identify a crop that was more successful in the United States than it was in Western Europe B. To support a claim about regional agricultural failures C. To give an example of a problematic trend that had started in the late seventeenth century D. To provide evidence that many countries in Europe experienced a loss of population in the nineteenth century 4. The phrase kept pace with in the passage is closest in meaning to A.exceeded  B. matched the increase in  C. increased the rate of  D. caused  5. According to paragraph 3, all of the following factors helped the supply of food meet the needs of a growing population EXCEPT A. increased agricultural research in Germany B. introduction of new crops C. development of food-processing devices D. agricultural programs in universities in the United States 6. The word capacity in the passage is closest in meaning to A. variety of goods  B. distance  C. reliability  D. available storage space  7. According to paragraph 4, famine became less of a problem in Western Europe during the nineteenth century because of A. the decline of malnutrition B. the construction of more food-storage facilities C. faster means of transportation D. improved agricultural methods in Eastern Europe 8. The word inevitable in the passage is closest in meaning to A. unexplainable B. undesirableC. unavoidable D. unpredictable 9. According to paragraph 5, which of the following factors led to rapid urbanization in the first half of the nineteenth century A. The destruction of many farms due to bad harvests B. The reduction in the amount of good-quality farmland C. The rise in death rates in the countryside D. The lack of jobs in the countryside 10. Paragraph 6 mentions all of the following as factors that contributed to the rapid decline of urban death rates EXCEPT A. the greater reliability of food supplies B. improvements in sanitation C. advances in the treatment of disease D. provisions for inspecting houses 11. The word surpass in the passage is closest in meaning toA. exceed B. influence C. equal  D. differ from 12. Which of the following can be inferred from paragraph 6 about underground sewers A. They became common in most of Western Europe in the 1830s. B. They helped reduce deaths caused by disease in cities. C. They led to the discovery that disease could be caused by germs. D. They encouraged people to leave rural areas and move to the cities. 13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage Such individual efforts had substantial, concrete effects on society. Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square []to add the sentence to the passage. 14. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they egress ideas mat are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points. Drag your choices to the spaces where they belong. To review the passage, click on View Text. A. Agricultural failures became less damaging after 1850 because of advances in science and technology as well as improvements in the transportation and preservation of foods.  B. Although agricultural failures led to deaths and emigration, population levels were restored within a short time. C. The development of better food-processing technologies allowed many Western European countries to grow their own food without having to import it from other countries. D. As the population in the countryside began increasing faster than the supply of food and living space, people began moving to the cities in search of jobs and other resources. E. High death rates in the cities began to decline as food supplies became more reliable and as reformers prompted improvements in sanitation and housing. F. The improvements in crop-growing methods created new jobs on the farms, causing people from the overcrowded cities to move to the countryside to fill those jobs.  