Listen to a conversation between a student and an employee at the university bookstore.

(man) Can I help you with something?
(woman) Yeah, I'm looking for this one book, uh, the main text for Anthropology 305, African storytelling? You have it listed on your Web site but I've checked all over and I don't see it here.
(man) OK, let me just locate that for you. African storytelling, oh, you know what, the professor for that course actually changed the reading list this semester and, Professor Stone, right?
(woman) Right?
(man) Yeah, he put a new edition of that book on the list this time and it's been hard to get ahold of. We were only able to get ten copies to start with, so, unfortunately, we've sold out a while ago.
(woman) Oh, right, I know I'm kind of late. Actually, I slipped into the class at the last minute. They just told me today that a spot had opened up.
(man) That's lucky for you. But, that course is always popular and it seems especially popular this year. Students have been coming in all week looking for the new edition and I've told them all the same thing.
(woman) Um, but, the Web site said,
(man) If you saw it listed on our Web site that was probably the old edition. We have plenty of those in stock. But we're stilling waiting on another order of new edition you need. So, I'll take your name down and you should check back, uh, next Friday.
(woman) Next Friday? But isn't there any way I could get it earlier?
(man) I know it's inconvenient but there probably won't be too much reading in the first couple of weeks of class, so,
(woman) But that's just it. Well, you see, I'm taking seven courses this semester.
(man) Seven? You're joking.
(woman) It's the only way I can graduate this year. But so I was planning to read ahead in this class, you know, get all the reading done for it now while I don't have much to do yet. Then later in the semester I'll have more time for my other classes so if I have to wait for the book,
(man) I see. Hmm, do you know anyone else who's taking the course?
(woman) Sure, actually, my roommate is.
(man) Why don't you borrow her copy?
(woman) Uh, I don't think sharing her copy would work if I'm gonna do all the reading. I'd need to carry it with me around campus and stuff.
(man) Then what about the library copy? Don't professors put library copies of textbooks on reserve, reserved for students in the course? You could claim one of those.
(woman) Oh, you're right! Oh, but no, I don't think they actually let us take reserved books out of the library, like, you have to sit there and read them. So as much as I'd love to just live in the library these next couple of weeks!
(man) Right, well, you could always order it online, but you'd have to pay extra for quick delivery.
(woman) Yeah, I was hoping to avoid that so, you still have the older edition, right? Maybe I'll ask the professor if it's similar enough.