Listen to part of a lecture in an Ecology class

(female professor) So, from our wildlife management discussion yesterday, we see that biologists and land managers need to know what kind of animals and how many are moving through a particular area. It helps them to better manage natural resources and, uh, to make policies for government programs and such. Now, when researchers want to identify mammals living in a certain area, they might study tracks, foot prints that animals leave there. That's a traditional method or they might collect animal hairs, fur. Hair is a good source of genetic information about an animal.

To collect hairs, researchers often use devices called hair snares. To use a hair snare, you set up some bait, like food, and when an animal comes to eat it, it brushes against the hair snare, which might be something like a piece of wood with special glue or tape on it. A little bit of hair sticks to the snare and then the researchers study it: Do DNA test to determine what species of mammal it is. Hair snares work but they can be a bit annoying or invasive to the animal whose fur's being collected.

Recently, a study conducted in Hungary avoided this problem by taking advantage of the nest-building behavior of birds. Most nest-building birds make new nests almost every year. And they incorporate a lot of organic materials such as twigs, branches, leaves and animal hair. You know, animals shed, leave hairs behind where they sleep, where they have dens, where they rub and scratch against trees. Well, you can picture a bear, a bear with an itchy back scratching it against a tree. Well, some pieces of fur get stuck in the tree or fall to the ground and get collected by birds as they pick up leaves or mud for their nests.

So, anyway, the researchers went through chosen forest areas in the mountains and plains in central Hungary and collected all the nests they could find. They collected over 3,600 nests. Some nests were in areas relatively isolated from humans and some were closer to villages and farms. And the best time to collect nests is after the nesting season, toward the end of the fall, when the birds have migrated and the nests are uninhabited, which is what the researchers did.

In this way, they avoided being invasive and interfering with egg-laying and the raising of young. The nests were tagged for location and then taken to a lab where they were dried and put into a deep freeze. This helped preserve the nests and also sanitize them because, well, who knows what they can be contaminated with. Then the researchers carefully dis-assembled the nests and when the hairs were separated, they were able to inspect them under a microscope and do a molecular and DNA analysis. Finally the hairs were categorized according to species and frequency of occurrence: how many nests contain hair from a certain species.

So, what did they find using the nest collection method? Lots that was expected and some that was not. As you might expect, the most common animal hairs came from wild animals that are common in Hungary such as deer and wild sheep. Surprisingly, in one area with human development like pastures and farms and such, the nest collected there contained only a few hairs from domestic animals like dogs. And some nests had hairs from animals rarely found in the region like the golden jackal. 

Now, the study also reveals some shortcomings of the nest collection method for wild life management. While it can let us know what kinds of mammals are in an area, it cannot tell us how many individuals of a particular species are present. While you can find hair of a particular animal, you can't tell how many of these animals are around, either living in or just passing through a certain area. And that's an important aspect of wild life management. So you'd still have to use a different technique to determine the number of certain animals in an area.
