Listen to part of a lecture in an Art class

(male professor) So, we've looked at techniques used by artists, how they use wire or wooden frames to build sculptures, or how they work with materials like clay or marble. But if you want to make a realistic sculpture, well, why not make a casting from real life? Well, prior to 1961, an artist generally wouldn't do this. It was something that just wasn't done.

So, now, let me tell you how the artist George Segal. That's S E G A L. Starting in 1961, Segal's sculptural technique was, he took plastic bandages and wrapped them around a living person, a living model. The model would stay still for twenty minutes while Segal manipulated the still wet plaster. The plaster would harden and it would end up with a replica of the person.

(female student) You mean he used the white medical plaster that doctors use when you break a leg or something?

(professor) Right, except he typically covered everything on the person, hair, face, clothing, shoes.

(female student) Cloth, too?

(professor) Correct. His plaster sculptures were of people and, typically, he focused on life's everyday moments, its everyday situations: someone eating a meal, crossing a street, sitting at a gas station. As part of his process he'd create the plaster sculpture. He'd also incorporate some suggestive environmental fragment to help create a context for that plaster person.

(female student) What do you mean exactly?

(professor) Well, you see to invoke a real-life environment, he'd place a few real-life objects close to each sculpture.

(female student) So these real-life objects were not plaster, right?

(professor) Right, such as an actual traffic light in one or an actual table and chair from the restaurant in another. And in this way the viewer's mind could fill in the rest of the scene from personal experience. I mean, everyone's crossed the street, right? So when you see a traffic light, you'll immediately think of all the associations that come with that: sidewalks, other pedestrians, cars, shops, noise, et cetera.

And, you know, there was an interesting irony to the sculptures he created. The sculptures, well, his models were primarily people he knew very well, friends, families, acquaintances. However, for the viewer, there was always a very anonymous quality to each sculpture, because, you see, the faces, well, you can't read anything off of the faces, because of the plaster they don't really convey emotion and the eyes appear blank empty. So, Segal focused a lot on the bodies, their posture, their position, what each person was doing. For example, a person slumped in a chair can evoke very distinct feelings like sadness or defeat.

Another thing about these pieces is that use of space was always at the forefront of Segal's thoughts. He thought it was important for the viewer to engage with that space, walk in and around and among the sculptures. Now, if you do go to the local exhibition, you won't be able to do that. Unfortunately museums sometimes fence things off to protect their exhibits. Nevertheless, be aware that in his own studio, Segal arranged his work to maximize a viewer's interaction with the sculptures. He paid a lot of attention to the significance of empty space.

(male student) Um, I happened to see a Segal sculpture at a museum years ago. Since plaster's naturally white, each of the figures was completely white, hair, clothing, skin, shoes, everything. It was quite striking.

(professor) Yes, that's his trademark, what he's most well known for. But, you know, he also occasionally painted some of his sculpted human figures.

(male student) Oh, I wasn't aware of that.

(professor) And here's the thing. When he did paint, he'd typically make each figure he sculpted a single solid color. Consider The Costume Party, for instance. It contains several human figures, one blue, one red, one yellow, why? Well, just as with his solid white plaster figures, Segal used solid color figures so that they would stand out distinctly. Everything else in the viewer's environment is composed of a more natural range of colors, right? So the figures in The Costume Party create a certain emotional response in the viewer.

OK, now, in the 1970s as his career progressed, outdoor public sculpture became all the rage, in part because of government mandates requiring new government buildings to purchase and display artist's work on their property. Most artists created sculpture of a gigantic size to fit with the architecture nearby. Segal, however, wanted his art to remain life-size, accessible. His unique solution? To increase the number of individuals in the art piece. In this way, his sculptures became larger.
