1.	What is the lecture mainly about?
A.	The influence of Incan culture on later Peruvian civilizations
B.	The significance of archaeological findings in a region of Peru
C.	The controversy surrounding a new method of archaeological research
D.	The renovation of rectangular pyramids found in Peru

2.	Why does the professor discuss the Aspero site in Peru?
A.	To provide evidence of an ancient Peruvian culture's knowledge of irrigation techniques
B.	To point out that the Aspero pyramids are different from those found at other Norte Chico sites
C.	To explain a belief about Peruvian history that was later challenged
D.	To clarify which of the twenty residential centers in the Norte Chico region was the largest

3.	What is the professor's opinion about the current archaeological classification of the Norte Chico culture?
A.	The culture should be considered complex in spite of the unusual way it developed.
B.	The culture seems to have followed the pattern that is typical of other major ancient civilizations.
C.	The failure of the culture to produce ceramic pottery indicates a lack of advancement.
D.	More evidence is needed before the culture can be classified into one of the existing categories.

4.	According to the professor, what crop was NOT cultivated by the ancient inhabitants of the Norte Chico region?
A.	Chilies
B.	Grains
C.	Beans
D.	Avocados

5.	What does the professor imply about the significance of the khipu that were produced by the Norte Chico culture?
A.	They represent the culture's first attempts at creating fabric.
B.	They confirm the importance of cotton in the regional economy.
C.	They suggest that early inhabitants of the region's coastal areas used fishing nets.
D.	They may constitute one of the earliest known forms of written communication.
 
6.	What does the professor say about how the city of Caral came to an end?
A.	People moved to the coast to have greater access to the ocean's resources.
B.	Outside enemy forces invaded the city.
C.	The city's inhabitants initiated a rebellion.
D.	The city's inhabitants abandoned the city in an organized manner.
