1.	What is the main topic of the lecture?
A.	A reconsideration of a way predators can evolve
B.	New evidence about predators tricking their prey
C.	Differences between mimicry and camouflage
D.	Uses of mimicry in predator-prey relationships

2.	Why does the professor mention flies?
A.	To explain an unusual case of Batesian mimicry
B.	To give an example of a harmless species mimicking a dangerous one
C.	To share the findings of a research study on camouflaging
D.	To explain why many types of insects prefer to live near bees

3.	What makes the type of octopus discovered off the coast of Indonesia particularly interesting to scientists?
A.	It is extremely poisonous to other animals.
B.	It can change both color and texture to blend in with its environment.
C.	It can imitate different animals in different situations.
D.	It tricks prey into thinking it is a harmless type of snake.

4.	What does the professor say about vocal mimicry?	Click on 2 answers
A.	It is a behavior that is not uncommon in nature.
B.	Marine organisms have never been observed using it.
C.	It is a behavior that is genetically determined rather than learned.
D.	Using it to attract prey instead of to scare predators is unusual.

5.	The professor discusses researchers' observations of a margay mimicking a tamarin. What does she indicate about those observations?
A.	The researchers scared away the tamarins before the margay could attack.
B.	The observations were not carried out in a scientific manner.
C.	The observations did not provide conclusive evidence that margays' mimicry is effective.
D.	The researchers established that baby tamarins respond to margay calls.
 
6.	What does the professor say about jaguars and cougars using vocal mimicry?
A.	Scientific observation must be carried out to verify this behavior.
B.	People living in the Amazon provide conclusive evidence for this behavior.
C.	This behavior must be an innate trait in jaguars and cougars.
D.	It is unlikely that jaguars and cougars exhibit this behavior.
