1.	What is the lecture mainly about?
A.	The evolution of Vermeer's painting style
B.	Ways that Vermeer's use of models influenced later Dutch painters
C.	Efforts to establish the date of one of Vermeer's paintings
D.	The enduring appeal of one of Vermeer's paintings

2.	According to the professor, how do portraits differ from tronies?
Click on 2 answers
A.	In portraits, the head and shoulders are facing the same direction.
B.	In portraits, the subject is intended to represent a specific person.
C.	In portraits, a larger proportion of the subject's body is included in the painting.
D.	In portraits, the overall dimensions of the painting are larger.

3.	Why does the professor describe ways in which light is depicted in Girl with a Pearl Earring?	Click on 2 answers
A.	To make a point about the quality of paint used by Vermeer
B.	To imply that Vermeer's style was in transition when the painting was made
C.	To point out the precision of Vermeer's observations
D.	To give an example of Vermeer's masterful painting technique

4.	Why does a student mention the Mona Lisa?
A.	To suggest that it might have influenced Vermeer's painting of Girl with a Pearl Earring
B.	To point out a similarity in the expressions of Vermeer's model and the woman in the Mona Lisa
C.	To ask for clarification about the methods used to assign time periods to undated paintings
D.	To question why Girl with a Pearl Earring has not yet been analyzed by a computer

5.	According to the professor, what aspect of Girl with a Pearl Earring appealed to the creators of the novel and the opera?
A.	Its similarity to other paintings that have inspired writers and composers
B.	Its history of ownership by a series of well-known art collectors
C.	The way it allowed them to invent a story about the subject of the painting
D.	The culture represented by the clothing and jewelry depicted in the painting

6.	The professor describes how scholars estimated the date that Girl with a Pearl Earring was painted. What is his opinion of this estimate?
A.	It is not fully convincing because it is based on subjective impressions.
B.	It relies too heavily on the date that the painting was first sold.
C.	It should have taken into account the ages of all of Vermeer's children.
D.	Scholars should have agreed on specific dates before making their estimate public.
