1. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.  A) The Berbers supplied labor for the Phoenician colonies, working in their fields and caring for their animals.  B) Surrounding the Phoenician were the Berbers, native North African people who grew grains and raised animals.  C) The Berbers grew wheat, barley, and millet on the lowlands surrounding Phoenician animal pastures.  D) Like the native Berbers, the Phoenician colonies grew wheat, barley, and millet and millet and raised sheep, goals, and cattle.2. According to paragraph 1, many scholars believe that iron smelting in Africa first began when the technique was  A) brought by Phoenicians who settled on the North African coast  B) discovered by the Berbers around 1,000 B.C.E  C) brought back from Phoenicia by seafaring African merchants  D) discovered in Carthage in modern Tunisia around 800 B.C.E3. Why does the author include the information that rock shelters in the Sahara contain images of “two-wheeled, horse-drawn chariots”?  A) To support the claim that the Berbers used horses to carry their soldiers in times of war  B) To show how scholars discovered that the Berbers used slaves  C) To argue that the ancient Berbers obtained goods primarily by raids  D) To help explain how the Berbers maintained contact and trade between the northern coast and interior of Africa4. The word “exclusively” in the passage is closest in meaning to.  A) originally.  B) only.  C) directly.  D) gradually.5. According to paragraph 3, which of the following is NOT a theory about the development of the iron-smelting process in Africa?  A) It arrived in Africa through trade between the Phoenicians and Berbers.  B) It was invented independently in different parts of Africa.  C) It first appeared in East Africa and then was carried by the Phoenicians to other parts of the world.  D) It was adopted by African traders living in a wide area between Morocco and Yemen.6. The phrase “Regardless of” in the passage is closest in meaning to.  A) No matter.  B) Because of.  C) As for.  D) Depending on.7. In stating that the furnaces were “adaptable to” iron technology, the author means that the furnaces  A) led to improvements in iron technology  B) were made with iron technology  C) were superior to iron technology  D) could be used with iron technology8. The author mentions “the beehive and cylindrical furnaces of West Africa” in order to  A) provide evidence that Africans developed original iron-smelting technology that was not found elsewhere.  B) support the argument that iron working was more important to West African societies than to those of North Africa and Mesopotamia.  C) provide evidence that West Africa may have developed smelting technology before North Africa did.  D) argue that iron working moved east from the West African coast to Niger and Nigeria.9. The word “distinct” in the passage is closest in meaning to.  A) permanent.  B) basic.  C) clear.  D) fair.10. According to paragraph 5, once iron technology reached western Africa, it   A) was exported to other continents.   B) was used only in a few key regions.   C) was available only to the ruling classes.   D) spread quickly over a large area.11. According to paragraph 5, the development of iron technology throughout Africa made all of the following possible EXCEPT   A) the means for clearing natural barriers.   B) greater success in hunting large animals.   C) the use of animals to help farm the land.   D) a society more divided by class and occupation.12. Paragraph 6 suggests that scholars today believe which of the following about iron technology and the spread of the Bantu languages?   A) The Bantu-speaking peoples were able to migrate across Africa because they gained access to iron technology.   B) Although iron technology and Bantu languages spread at about the same time, no causal connection has been shown.   C) The spread of Bantu languages and the spread of iron technology occurred at different times and were unrelated events.   D) The migratory Bantu-speaking peoples were responsible for the wide dispersal of iron technology across Africa.13.Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   Archaeological evidence has shed light on how the Berbers traveled along these routes.   Where would the sentence best fit?14.Prose Summary   There are competing theories about how iron technology first came to Africa, but it is agreed that once there, it had great social impact.   Answer Choices   A) One theory is that the Phoenicians first brought iron to North Africa and that the Berbers were responsible for spreading it south.   B) Paintings in the rock shelters of the Sahara provide evidence for the presence of iron in Africa even before the formation of Carthage in 800B.C.E.   C) Some scholars believe that trans-Saharan routes were first used for trading iron but were later used for war and for trading other types of goods.   D) There is some evidence, such as various styles of furnaces, that supports the view that iron technology developed independently in different parts of Africa.   E) Iron tools made farmers and hunters more productive, which allowed other members of society to focus on politics, arts, crafts, and trade.   F) Numerous artifacts provide evidence that Bantu-speaking peoples used iron technology to conquer large areas of West Africa.