1. In describing the land as not farmed "to capacity" the author means that the land was not being.  A) used to its full agricultural potential.  B) used in a profitable way.  C) farmed efficiently.  D) farmed in a planned way.2. The word "cycle" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) long period of time marked by stability  B) pattern of events that repeats itself  C) expansion  D) result3. According to paragraph 1, all of the following help to explain European prosperity in the sixteenth century EXCEPT  A) The availability of uncultivated land that could be used for farming  B) An increase in the number of workers in cities and towns  C) Improvements in design that made new housing more convenient  D) An increase in the productivity of farms due to an increase in farm workers4. According to paragraph 2, how did the early growth of towns affect rural families?  A) Expanding town populations meant there was less land for farming families.  B) Rural families could depend on towns to provide their children with opportunities for work.  C) Rural migrants to towns returned to their villages to work and support their families.  D) Many rural families began to combine selling crops with the production of luxury goods.5. In paragraph 3, why does the author state that in certain places farmland was taken from shared waste areas, the woodlands, of scrublands?  A) To demonstrate the resourcefulness of farmers  B) To emphasize the importance of land use for animal forage and domestic fuel  C) To compare the productivity of different kinds of land  D) To illustrate how the increased demand for food resulted in the farming of less productive land6. The word "surplus" in the passage is closest in meaning to.  A) increased  B) newly arrived  C) extra  D) available7. Paragraph 4 implies that wages for jobs fell for which of the following reasons?  A) The cost of materials for skilled craftspeople rose dramatically  B) An increasingly skilled peasant workforce began to compete with specialized craftspeople for jobs  C) A decrease in migration slowed development in the building trades  D) Employers could hire from larger numbers of available workers8. In paragraph 4, why does the author provide the information that by 1550 a French stonemason could buy fewer than ten pounds of bread with his daily wages?  A) To show the importance of bread in the European diet  B) To illustrate the scarcity of resources during the 1550s  C) To demonstrate the decreased purchasing power of skilled labor  D) To compare the wages of skilled craftsman with those of other laborers9. Paragraph 4 implies that reapers were able to maintain adequate wages for which of the following reasons?  A) Reapers were being repaid for having endured declines in wages in the early sixteenth century.  B) Reapers were able to combine their duties with other work, such as grape picking.  C) Few people were strong enough to do the work that reapers did.  D) Reapers were the workers most familiar with technical advances in agriculture.10. According to paragraph 5, what effect did the introduction of gold and silver from the New World have on European economies?   A) It led to considerable debt within European states.   B) It halted the increase in prices in local Europe markets.   C) It led to a stronger trade relationship between America and Europe.   D) It decreased the value of other precious metals.11. According to paragraph 5, how did European governments attempt to limit the effects of the price revolution?   A) They tried to understand the relationship between money supply and prices.   B) They began to purchase more agricultural and manufactured goods.   C) They lowered the worth of their coins.   D) They increased their amount of international trade.12. The word "disrupted" in the passage is closest in meaning to.   A) disordered   B) reversed   C) exaggerated   D) controlled13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   Such conditions invited and welcomed villagers who, in turn, brought others.Where would the sentence best fit?14. Prose Summary   The dramatic rise in the European population in the sixteenth century significantly affected people's lives.   Answer Choices   A) Because there was land for expanded agriculture and plentiful workers in towns and cities, the population growth at first considerably improved the lives of most Europeans.   B) Over the course of the sixteenth century, rural life gradually changed, farmers became wealthy, stopped saving, bought luxury goods and sent their children to work in the towns.   C) As the population grew, farmers were able to raise the prices on cereal grains between five- and six-fold but could no longer afford to buy luxury goods priced in gold and silver.   D) During the Price Revolution of the sixteenth century, the annual rate of inflation was less than two percent, which would not be serious for a modern market economy.   E) Eventually the growth of urban populations began to have disadvantages as work became scarce and wages insufficient to meet the rising prices of food and goods.   F) In the last half of the sixteenth century, wages that did not keep up with rising prices and bad monetary policy created difficult economic circumstances for ordinary people and governments.