1. The word “immense” in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) remarkable  B) huge  C) beyond doubt  D) unmatched2. The word “surge” in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) gradual change  B) new distribution  C) quality improvement  D) sudden increase3. The word “quantify” in the passage is closest in meaning to.  A) describe  B) question  C) calculate  D) review4. Paragraph 2 suggests that, according to Robert Fogel and Albert Fishlow, if the railroads had not existed  A) economic growth would have been almost the same, assuming that roads and canals were developed instead  B) there would have been no way to provide equivalent transportation services by roads of canals  C) the cost of providing transportation by other means would have significantly slowed the nation’s economic growth  D) the amount of iron and coal produced in a typical year would have satisfied industry demand for only a couple of years5. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.  A) Like most technological innovations, the means to facilitate personal travel came about as a result of the synthesis of diverse ideas.  B) Railroads probably increased the rate of technological innovation by making it easier for people in different places to meet and share ideas.  C) The flow of ideas that resulted from technological innovation led to an increased interest in personal travel by railroad.  D) Technological innovation generally involves the combination of diverse ideas and thus increases as the flow of information increases.6. The word “ accelerated” in the passage is closest in meaning to.  A) caused  B) speeded up  C) made possible  D) guaranteed7. According to paragraph 4, between 1790 and 1860 all of the following changes occurred EXCEPT:  A) Regional economies were integrated into the national economy.  B) The eastern and western parts of the United States were connected.  C) Railroad companies earned greater profits as a result of personal travel.  D) People were able to travel to the city of Chicago more quickly.8. According to paragraph 4, why did railroads arguably have a bigger impact on the United States than automobiles or airplanes did?  A) Rail travel was less expensive than automobile or plane travel.  B) Railroads played a bigger role in connecting areas that were formerly difficult to reach.  C) Railroads made up a bigger proportion of the national economy.  D) The transition to rail travel happened more quickly.9. According to paragraph 5, which of the following was NOT one of the social effects of railroads?  A) Widely separated areas of the country became more culturally similar.  B) Recreational travel became much more common.  C) Many people began to lose their admiration for nature.  D) People began to identify more strongly as citizens of the United States.10. Which of the following is mentioned in paragraph 6 as one of the effects railroads had on local economies?  A) Many towns were divided by the railroads, with an industrial center on one side and a residential area on the other.  B) Manufacturers that used local resources went out of business because they could not compete in larger markets.  C) New towns were created in places where the train crews were changed and locomotives were watered.  D) Towns and regions without access to railroads developed alternative ways to use steam power.11. In paragraph 7, why does the author mention the large hierarchical organizations created by some major companies?  A) To argue that these types of organizations were based on models created by the railroad companies  B) To provide examples of changes during this time period that were not related to the railroads  C) To support the claim that railroads changed the way, goods were produced as well as distributed  D) To explain what happened to the department stores, chain stores, and mail-order companies created in the 1870s12.Look at the four squares [■] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   On June 4, 1876, a train named the Transcontinental Express would arrive in San Francisco. California only 83 hours and 39 minutes after it left New York City.   Where would the sentence best fit?13. Prose Summary   The development of the railroad transportation system in the nineteenth century substantially changed life in the United States.   Answer Choices   A) The use of the railroad by industries to reach new resources and markets created vast economic growth throughout many regions of the country.   B) New studies by researchers like Fogel and Fishlow reveal the large impact that railroads had in tying together the markets for industrial goods like iron and coal.   C) Railroads created large national markets for goods, allowing for more specialization among local farmers and manufacturers, as well as the creation of large-scale production companies.   D) The fast and inexpensive personal travel provided by the railroad system allowed people to explore different parts of the country, leading to widespread social change.   E) Although the railroad connected the Far West to the rest or the country. Its effects on personal travel remained mostly in eastern and mid-western cities like New York and Chicago.   F) In the latter decades of the nineteenth century, the influence of the railroads declined with the rise of large companies that engaged both in production and distribution.