#article
The world's first empire arose around 2340 B.C.E. when Sargon, a warrior from the city of Akkad, conquered all of the independent city-states of Mesopotamia (today's Iraq). However, Sargon's Akkadian Empire lasted only a short time. Scholars have proposed three explanations for why the Akkadian Empire did not last very long.

    First, rebellions of the conquered city-states were a serious threat to the unity of the empire. The conquered city-states were forced to provide Sargon's central imperial government with expensive services and tributes (for example, a quantity of gold every year). Many of the city-states wanted to be free of these obligations and rebelled against the imperial government. Frequent rebellions could have weakened the imperial government and could have eventually led to a breakup of the empire.

    Second, the empire may have experienced serious problems with food supply. For a long time, the northern region of the empire, where agricultural conditions were excellent, was used a source of food for the rest of the empire. However, at a certain point, the north suffered from an extended period of too little rainfall. The worsened farming conditions may have seriously affected the food supply chain and brought down the whole empire.

    Third, the Akkadian Empire traded with countries and kingdoms outside Mesopotamia for many important materials, such as metals, wood, or precious stones. However, the Akkadian Empire often tried to use its strength to dominate the trade relationships and impose its own conditions on trade. This naturally met with resistance: it is reported, for example, that thirty-two foreign kings united to fight a sea battle against the Akkadians. Such resistance may have caused enough damage to the Akkadians’ trade economy to cause the empire's downfall.


#record
Now listen to part of a lecture on the topic you just read about.

(female professor) None of the reasons you read about provides a convincing explanation for the collapse of the Akkadian Empire.

First, about the rebellion of the city-states against the central imperial government, well, the only chance that the city-state rebels had to have successfully resisted the central government's powerful army was if they fought from inside the city that had defensive walls around it. But that was not possible. When Sargon originally conquered the city-states, he ordered their defensive walls to be destroyed. So, since the cities no long had their protective walls, the city-state rebels did not stand much of a chance against the imperial government's army. The rebellions would have been easily and quickly defeated.

Second, it's true that the bad weather conditions you read about would have been a problem for food supplies. But the Akkadians had the agricultural technology to help them survive these kinds of conditions, They had irrigation techniques that allowed them to bring water over long distances. And they knew how to store grain over long periods of time. They could have kept up a functioning food supply chain even during a relatively long period of reduced rainfall.

Third, it's true that the unfair trading practices of the Akkadians caused some of their partners to rise up against them. But the Akkadians were constantly searching for contacts with new trading partners. For example, they sent trading ships as far as the Indian sub-continent in the east and they found trading partners as far west as the Mediterranean Sea. So even if the resistance of some of their trading partners disrupted some of the trade and resulted in a lost access to resources the Empire relied on, the new trade connections gave the Akkadians access to new resources which made up for the losses.
#question
Summarize the points made in the lecture, being sure to explain how they opposed the specific points made in the reading passage.



