1.The word prompts in the passage is closest in meaning to A. stimulates 
B. strengthens 
C. prepares 
D. forces 2.According to paragraph 1, which of the following is true of male songbirds in the first year of life  A. They do not begin singing until sometime in late summer or autumn. B. They begin singing earlier in the tropics than in northern latitudes. C. They listen to songs of adults for an extended period of time before they themselves sing. D. Their earliest songs contain the characteristic order of syllables for their species. 3.The word particular in the passage is closest in meaning to A. popular  
B. specific  
C. well-known 
D. complex 4.According to paragraphs 2 and 3, all of the following are true about San Francisco white-crowns EXCEPT: A. They do not migrate to another area in spring to establish territories. B. They completely acquire their song as early as three months after birth. C. They establish territories in their first autumn. D. They begin singing much earlier in captivity than they do in nature. 5.In paragraph 3, the author points out that San Francisco white-crowns establish their territories in the area in which they are born in order to explain which of the following A. Why they practice counter-singing B. Why they get better territories than white-crowns that establish territories in areas in which they are not born C. Why they are more competitive than white-crowns raised in captivity D. Why in their natural habitat they start singing earlier than white-crowns raised in captivity 6.Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information. A. Many species, including white-crowns, use a dueling technique to spread the practice of countersinging to other males of the species. B. A young white-crown male uses countersinging to learn the songs of nearby males by repeatedly practicing them. C. A young white-crown male engages in countersinging with a nearby male in order to assert its continuing presence in its territory. D. Young white-crown males, much like young children, are competitive. 7.The word eventually in the passage is closest in meaning to A. generally B. probably C. in the end D. at the least8.The word recall in the passage is closest in meaning to A. repeat  
B. remember 
C. recognize 
D. complete 9.According to paragraph 4, white-crowns with which of the following life histories demonstrate the importance of memory in song acqusition A. White-crowns that learn a dialect before they learn their standard song B. White-crowns that first heard a dialect of the white-crown song before they were ten days old C. White-crowns that were moved from where they were born to a different region during their sensitive period D. White-crowns that were raised in nature through part of their sensitive period and then transferred to the laboratory 10.What can be inferred from paragraph 4 about the local dialect of the species song that a white-crown sings after the sensitive period has closed A. Those dialects must be learned during the sensitive period and are retained thereafter even in new environments. B. Those dialects can be learned after the sensitive period if they are common in the local area. C. Those dialects can be learned after the sensitive period if the birds are raised in the laboratory. D. Those dialects are learned during the sensitive period and afterward used only when they hear others sing them. 11.According to paragraph 5, which of the following statements is true about white-crowns reared in isolation that are exposed to tapes of other species' songs A. The tapes cause the white-crowns to begin singing earlier than those not exposed to the tapes. B. The tapes do not affect the white-crowns' singing development or change their song. C. The tapes help the white-crowns learn the standard song of their species. D. The tapes aid the white-crowns in learning local dialects of other species. 12.What can be inferred from paragraph 5 about the song of white-crowns raised in the wild A. It is less complex than the song of birds raised in isolation. B. It is the standard song of the white-crown species. C. It is a mixture of the basic white-crown song and the dialects of other white-crowns that inhabit the local area. D. It is identical to dialects learned from exposure to tapes. 13.Drag your choices to the spaces where they belong. To review the passage, click on View Text.Answer Choices A. Male birds have a standard process for acquiring their songs that involves a sensitive period when learning takes place. B. Birds raised in the wild can differ from those raised in captivity in when they begin to sing their song, which is used to establish their territory. C. Testosterone levels in male birds affect the quality of the young bird's song. D. Birds that do not need to establish their territory, such as those raised in isolation, are unlikely to learn to sing. E. The learning of local dialects demonstrates that song acquisition involves both internal and environmental influences. F. Birds raised in the wild may acquire the songs of other species in their local area. 