1. The word "fragments" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) materials  B) pieces  C) patterns  D) characteristics2. According to paragraph 1, the archaeological methods involved in studying plant domestication  A) are not yet sophisticated enough to provide knowledge about plant domestication  B) often damage other artifacts within the area of excavation  C) focus on separating organic remains from other substances  D) require identifying areas that once contained significant amounts of water3. According to paragraph 2, why is it difficult for archaeologists to distinguish between the remains of wild and domesticated animals?  A) Bone remains change over time so that it is impossible to know their original shape.  B) The presence of large quantities of milk, wool, or egg remains may indicate either wild or domesticated species.  C) Differences in jaw or tooth size are hard to determine from archaeological evidence.  D) Characteristics that have been used to identify domesticated animals can be found in wild animals as well.4. The word "substantially" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) regularly  B) naturally  C) obviously  D) considerably5. What is one reason that observations of the type mentioned in paragraph 4 need to be carefully assessed?  A) The sex ratios of animals hunted by humans vary more than the sex ratios of other animals in the wild.  B) Juvenile individuals account for a large percentage of the animals killed by non-human predators.  C) Humans hunt more selectively than other predators do.  D) There is not enough information about how species were distributed in ancient times.6. The phrase "associated with" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) dependent on  B) focused on  C) related to  D) resulting from7. The phrase "as opposed to" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) not unlike  B) in the absence of  C) in contrast to  D) in addition to8. According to paragraph 5, some archaeologists regard the presence of grinding stones at an archaeological site as an indication that  A) the site probably dates to after the Paleolithic period  B) the site probably had been occupied only seasonally  C) the people living there were probably hunter-gatherers  D) it was possible to lead a settled life while retaining a full hunter-gatherer lifestyle9. In paragraph 5, why does the author include the information that broken pieces of pottery often provided "clues to Neolithic communities" ?   A) To provide an example of remains that archeologists use to infer a shift to domestication   B) To explain how archaeologists have been able to identify the purpose of storage structures at Neolithic sites   C) To explain how archaeologists discovered that Neolithic peoples had to invent ways to store agricultural crops   D) To support the claim that food-processing artifacts are more commonly found at Neolithic than at Paleolithic sites10. Paragraph 5 mentions all of the following as true of the Neolithic peoples EXCEPT:   A) They engaged in the production of food in settled communities.   B) They frequently searched for new herds in order to domesticate animals.   C) They used new methods for processing and storing food crops.   D) They made clay pots that they used to cook and store food.12. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   This involves taking several relevant factors into account.   Where would the sentence best fit?13. Prose Summary   Most of our knowledge of both plant and animal domestication comes from the archaeological record.   Answer Choices:   A) Information about differences between domesticated plant species and wild species has increased greatly in recent years as a result of a technique known as flotation.   B) The presence of domesticated plants can often be determined from studying remains found at archaeological sites, but it is much more difficult to distinguish between domesticated and wild animals.   C) Archaeologists look for signs of human influence on wild animal populations as an indication of the beginnings of domestication, but evidence for such influence can be problematic.   D) Paleolithic hunters in Southwest Asia killed both wild goats and sheep for food, but later peoples began to prefer hunting sheep, often capturing animals to be killed and eaten at a later time.   E) Large and small storage structures made from many different materials have been found at Neolithic sites demonstrating the resourcefulness of the inhabitants of the sites.   F) The shift from hunting and gathering to domestication is sometimes inferred from food-processing artifacts, but such indirect evidence as the presence of pottery, does not, by itself, guarantee that shift.