1. According to paragraph 1, which of the following is evidence of a close connection between the Dvaravati civilization and the Mon people?  A) There is an established record of trade between the Mon and Dvaravati peoples.  B) The traditional title of the ruler of the Mon people was Lord of Dvaravati.  C) Geographically, the Dvaravati civilization did not go beyond the area inhabited by the Mon people.  D) The remains of Dvaravati sites contain writing in the Mon language.2. According to paragraph 1, although little is known about the Dvaravati civilization, one established fact is  A) how and where its first site developed  B) the religious belief of its people  C) its precise geographical boundaries  D) why its sites are located in dense clusters3. The word "dispersal" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) design  B) distribution  C) size  D) preservation4. What can be inferred from paragraphs 1 and 2 about the significance of the location of Dvaravati sites?  A) Sites were concentrated along routes to Burma and Cambodia because of the close religious and cultural ties with those countries.  B) The placement of sites provided the necessary physical separation for the practice of Buddhism.  C) The location of the sites reflected the political dominance of the Dvaravati people over a wide area of Southeast Asia.  D) The Dvaravati sites were concentrated along trade routes that provided important economic benefits for their people.5. The word "configuration" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) development  B) density  C) arrangement  D) variety6. According to paragraph 2, which of the following is an important source of information about the Dvaravati civilization?  A) Records from countries such as Burma, Cambodia, and Laos that surround its sites.  B) The cultural objects that it produced for trade.  C) The way its sites are distributed and the items of foreign origin found at those sites.  D) The number of different trade routes that run through its sites.7. The word "distinctive" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) attractive  B) valuable  C) recognizable  D) plentiful8. The phrase "attest to" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) provide evidence of  B) reveal the history of  C) are the result of  D) are all that is left of9. According to paragraph 3, each of the following is characteristic of Dvaravati sites EXCEPT  A) remains of Buddhist religious articles  B) inscriptions honoring political leaders  C) towns laid out in the shape of a circle or an oval  D) earthen fortifications10. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.   A) There is solid evidence that by sometime in the eleventh century the Tai people were present in the Dvaravati region, and it is very likely that they had begun to appear in the northern Dvaravati areas by the ninth century.   B) It is highly probable that when the Tai people began moving into the region in the ninth century it was still controlled by the Dvaravati people, but by the eleventh century the Tai had begun to take over the lowland monarchies.   C) There is little reason to believe that the Tai people were present anywhere in the Dvaravati region before the eleventh century, when inscriptions in Tai began to appear on lowland monarchical structures.   D) The earliest evidence that the Tai people had moved into Dvaravati territories comes from the ninth century, although it is also possible that the Tai moved into Dvaravati areas as late as the eleventh century.11. According to paragraph 4, which of the following was true of the Dvaravati civilization during the sixth through the ninth centuries?   A) It was not ruled from a single capital.   B) Its power continually expanded from the sixth through the ninth centuries.   C) It established and maintained ties with civilizations in other regions.   D) Its administrative organization gradually weakened from the sixth to the ninth century.12. What is the purpose of paragraph 4 in relation to the passage as a whole?   A) To clarify unanswered questions about the politics and ethnicity of the Dvaravati civilization   B) To introduce information about the role of the Tai people in the Dvaravati civilization   C) To support the position that the Dvaravati civilization had many surrounding areas under its control   D) To establish both the extent of unknown information about the Dvaravati civilization and the aspects that are clear13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   However, many Buddhist sacred objects were made locally.   Where would the sentence best fit?14. Prose summary   The Dvaravati civilization, a distinctive Buddhist culture associated with the Mon people, developed in central and northeastern Thailand between the sixth and ninth centuries.   Answer Choices:      A) The people living in the Thailand Central Plain were given the name Dvaravati because that name appeared on the coins that were widely used throughout the region under their control.   B) Archeological evidence indicates that the Dvaravati people engaged in overland trade and established cultural and economic connections throughout much of Southeast Asia and beyond.   C) The walled towns, with their extensive religious establishments and Buddhist works of art at Dvaravati sites, had many inhabitants who were probably supported by rural populations.   D) Dvaravati culture was very similar to that of its neighbors, partly as a result of its commercial ties to India and partly because of its use of the Mon language.   E) The Dvaravati people evidently had a well-functioning civilization that extended over a wide area, but much is unknown about their history, ethnic composition, and political organization.   F) Possibly as early as the ninth century, the Tai people moved into what had been Dvaravati territory, and by the eleventh century Tai had replaced Mon as the language of the region.