1. The word "painstakingly" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) at a high financially cost  B) with great effort  C) generally  D) by taking many risks2. In paragraph 1, why does the author include the information that the gear teeth were cut and filed by hand?  A) To illustrate how much work was required to make clocks in that period  B) To suggest that clock-making process of that period were crude and imprecise  C) To explain why clocks of the period were so large  D) To indicate that there was a limit to the precision of American clocks of that period3. According to paragraph 1, which of the following statements is true about American-made clocks at the start of the nineteenth century?  A) Only ten to fifteen of them were produced each year.  B) Their parts often did not fit together very well.  C) Clockmakers constructed them inside richly inlaid display cases.  D) Only rich people could afford to buy them.4. The word "precise" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) expensive  B) long-lasting  C) complex  D) accurate5. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.  A) By moving to the mass production of clocks, Terry completely transformed the business of clock making.  B) The use of mass production techniques transformed Terry's business and allowed the American middle class to gain status by owning a clock.  C) As a result of Terry's moving to the mass production of clocks, the social status that was traditionally associated with owning a clock changed.  D) While many middle-class Americans owned hand-made clocks, they hoped to gain the status that came with owning Terry's mass-produced clocks.6. According to paragraph 2, which of the following was true about Eli Terry's life?  A) He started out as a woodworker rather than as a clockmaker.  B) He was originally trained by local clockmakers of German descent.  C) He learned about the usefulness of specialized manufacturing equipment when he was working as a military arms manufacturer.  D) He created equipment that made clock-making a less-skilled occupation than it had been before.7. According to paragraph 2, all of the following were advantages of Terry's clocks over traditional clocks EXCEPT  A) how much longer they ran without adjustment  B) how much less work was required to produce them  C) how much less expensive they were  D) how much lighter in weight they were8. Paragraph 2 suggests that Terry was able to produce 4,000 clock movements within three years primarily because he had  A) created new methods of selling clocks to a wider range of consumers  B) employed 200 skilled clockmakers in his shop, all working on clock movements at the same time  C) set up a factory to manufacture clock movements using specialized water-driven tools  D) acquired lathes, saws, drills, and gear-cutters from a military manufacturer9. According to paragraph 3, what was true about Terry's standard clock of 1810?  A) Its mechanism was only 20 inches high.  B) It could be used without a wooden cabinet.  C) It was much cheaper to make than Terry's shelf clock was.  D) Terry received a patent for it.10. Paragraph 3 suggests that Terry's patent on his compact clock   A) was largely responsible for the clock's immediate success   B) did not prevent other clockmakers from profiting from his work   C) made it easier for his competitors to copy his design   D) greatly reduced competition from other clockmakers11. The phrase "his imitators" in the passage is closest in meaning to   A) the people who copied him   B) the people who worked for him   C) his competitors   D) his supplier12. According to paragraph 4, which of the following is true about Chauncey Jerome?   A) He was a clockmaker who had been a competitor of Eli Terry's until Terry hired Jerome to work with him.   B) He was the first to decorate clock cabinets with a combination of pillars and scrollwork.   C) He was primarily responsible for forcing Terry to focus on style in producing a line of cheap, mass-market clocks.   D) He helped Terry transform the original shelf clock into an inexpensive yet stylish product.13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   To meet that goal, however, Terry needed to find a way to make his manufacturing even more efficient.   Where would the sentence best fit?14. Prose summary   Eli Terry's innovations turned clocks into mass-market products.   Answer Choices:   A) Traditionally, precision clock movements were slowly handcrafted out of brass by highly skilled clockmakers and housed in carved cabinets.   B) Terry's technique of making clocks from carved wood instead of used metal made them into fashionable works of art that were desired by wealthy patrons.   C) Terry devised specialized tools for manufacturing clock movements that were less precise but easier and cheaper to produce.   D) Terry started innovation when peddlers were unable to sell clocks because of their high prices and transportation difficulty.   E) Terry's early wooden clocks were still very large and customers still had the expense of a cabinet, but he later developed an inexpensive compact clock that came installed in a high-fashion cabinet.   F) It was only when Chauncey Jerome produced plain wooden cases for Terry's clocks that Terry was able to sell his clocks cheaply enough to achieve financial success.