#article
Autogenic Succession

While some ecosystems are relatively permanent and stable, others change considerably over time. One type of change that an ecosystem may undergo is called autogenic succession. Autogenic succession refers to a change in an ecosystem that is brought about by the organisms themselves, usually plant species, that are living in the ecosystem. Autogenic succession can make an environment less suitable for the species that causes the change while making it more suitable for a different species. Over time, the changes in the environment of the ecosystem may be so significant that the new species may completely replace the former species there.

#record
Now listen to part of a lecture on this topic in an Ecology class.

(male professor) OK, let’s say we have a clearing, an open grassy meadow, and it’s sunny in the clearing, in this grassy area, and the soil is nice and dry. Now, these conditions, sun and dry soil, are perfect for a certain type of trees, pine trees. So what will often happen is pine trees will start growing in the meadow and the pine trees grow really well in the dry sunny clearing and eventually a pine forest grows up. So, now, the meadow is a forest.

But in certain climates, over time, an interesting thing can happen. When the pine trees in the forest drop their leaves, or their needles, these needles build up on the ground. So now you have a layer of pine needles on the ground. This means that when it rains, soil retains more moisture. So the soil is no longer dry like it was when the area was a meadow. Also, pine trees create shade, because their branches and needles are blocking the sunlight. So it’s no longer sunny, not much sunlight reaches the ground.

So, now, the conditions in the area are wet and shady, the exact opposite of the dry sunny conditions pine trees need to grow. So new pine trees aren’t growing very well. But the wet shady conditions are great for other kinds of trees, like oak trees. So some young oak trees start springing up and they grow really well, better than pine trees. And after a hundred years or so, the forest is mostly oak trees instead of pine.

#question
Using the example of pine trees and oak trees, explain how autogenic succession can affect an ecosystem.
