#record
Listen to part of a talk in a Business class.

(female professor) OK, if your company has a new product to sell, one thing you’ll have to decide is what distribution channel you’re going to use to sell the product. For example, will you sell your product primarily over the telephone, over the internet, in store or through some other channel? And there’re certain factors you’ll need to consider when making this decision.

First, you’ll need to consider how much it’s going to cost you to sell your product through a particular distribution channel. Certain channels are more expensive to use than other. And you’ll have to take that into consideration, because if you have to spend a lot of money in order to sell your product, it may be difficult for you to make a profit on your product. Say for example you’re going to start selling books. Your first thought might be to open a store in the local mall. But then, when you considered the cost of operating that store, the rent, the maintenance, the electric bills and so on, you decided to be better just to sell books over the internet, which would cost you a lot less.

Another factor to consider is whether the product needs to be customized for specific buyers, whether the product needs to be adjusted in some way for specific customers. If the product does require some kind of individual customization, it may be best to sell the product through a channel that allows for face-to-face interaction between the seller and buyer. That way, the seller can make adjustment to the product based on individual buyer’s needs. For example, if a company wants to sell clothing that is especially made to fit particular individuals, rather than selling the clothing online, it may be better to sell the clothing at a store, where the buyer can come in for measurements and fittings, to make sure that the clothing fits properly.

#question
Using points and examples from the professor’s talk, explain two factors companies have to consider when determining what distribution channel to use to sell a product.
