1.According to paragraph 1, building dams was beneficial in each of the following ways EXCEPT A． increasing the amount of land that could be used for farming B． strengthening local economies C． increasing the availability of low-cost electricity D． expanding the aquatic habitats of native species 2.According to paragraph 2, the likelihood that new dams will be built has decreased because A． construction costs have increased enormously B． safety standards have become much higher C． public opposition to dam construction has increased D． at most suitable sites an existing dam would have to be removed first 3.The word obsolete in the passage is closest in meaning to A. unpopular 
B. inefficient 
C. out of date 
D. unnecessary 4.Paragraph 2 supports which of the following ideas about operating licenses for large dams A. Since 1999 licenses have been renewed only for small dams. B. Before 1999, owners applying for a license renewal were more likely to have their applications approved than they were after that date. C. Strong public opposition to their renewal was common even before 1999, but it was based on safety considerations, not on environmental ones. D. The environmental cost of dams has been a minor consideration in license renewal applications since 1999. 5.According to paragraph 3, why did the United States Fish and Wildlife Service want the Edwards Dam removed A. Because the age of the dam made it unsafe B. Because the dam was negatively affecting various species of fish C. Because the dam had caused wetlands to form D. Because the dam no longer provided economic benefits 6.Paragraph 3 suggests that one main consideration for keeping the Edwards Dam was A. the electricity it generated B. the length of time it had been in operation C. the high cost of removing it D. the fact that removing it would set a bad example 7.According to paragraph 4, why would removing the Elwha and Glines dams not be enough to restore salmon to the Elwha River A. They are not the only dams on the Elwha River. B. The lumber and paper mills in Port Angeles also block access to upstream spawning beds. C. Too many species of salmon are competing for survival in one river. D. The dams have left the river's spawning beds in an unusable condition. 8.The word suitable in the passage is closest in meaning to A. New  
B. Healthy  
C. Appropriate 
D. Similar 9.The word ambitious in the passage is closest in meaning to A. impressive but difficult to achieve B. dangerous and require considerable planning C. complex and unlikely to be completed D. greatly needed 10.According to paragraph 5, why do environmental groups want the Hetch Hetchy Dam removed A. To restore salmon and steelhead runs to the Snake River B. To allow access to the headwaters of the Columbia River C. To increase the size of Yosemite National Park D. To restore a valley to its original beauty 11.The phrase take precedence over in the passage is closest in meaning to A. Affect B. have greater importance than C. get included among D. minimize 12.What is the role of paragraph 6 in the passage A. To propose a method for deciding whether a given dam should be removed B. To emphasize the complexity of the issues involved in deciding what should be done about dams C. To suggest that the recent tendency not to build new dams may be wrong D. To sum up the points made earlier in the passage about the advantages and disadvantages of removing dams 13.Drag your choices to the spaces where they belong. To review the passage, click on View Text.Answer Choices A. Until recently, the emphasis in dam building was on the economic benefits of low-cost energy and water that dams provided, but more attention is now being paid to the damage they cause. B. Since the late 1990s, the government has stopped building large dams, instead focusing on removing existing dams and restoring natural habitats. C. Environmental groups now have a very good chance of forcing the removal of two major dams, the Glen Canyon Dam on the Colorado and the Hetch Hetchy Dam in Yosemite. D. Until recently, the main reason for removing dams was to restore salmon runs, but it is now recognized that a more important reason to remove dams is that they are no longer safe. E. The removal of dams remains controversial because of high restoration costs, loss of low-cost electricity, and the loss of water storage facilities. F. Although the U.S. government originally planned to remove the Elwha and Glines Dams in Washington, the enormous expense of removal has resulted in a postponement of this effort. 