1.The word enduring in the passage is closest in meaning to A. Exciting
B.Lasting 
C. Unexpected 
D. well-known 2.Why does the author mention the enormous stretches of ocean that separate the Southern Hemisphere continents today A. To emphasize the importance of the famous European voyages of discovery in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries B. To suggest a reason why so many genera of flowering plants are found only in the Southern Hemisphere C. To question the accuracy of Sir Joseph Dalton Hooker's observations about the similarities between the flora of Australia and that of South America D. To explain why the similarities between flora pointed out by Sir Joseph Dalton Hooker seemed so remarkable 3.Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information. A. The similarities in fauna and flora across Southern Hemisphere continents were explained in the late nineteenth century. B. In the nineteenth century it was discovered that the Southern Hemisphere continents contain fauna and flora that are highly similar. C. In the nineteenth century, it was suggested that the modern continents of the Southern Hemisphere were once connected. D. The fauna and flora of the modern continents of the Southern Hemisphere were found to be very similar in the late nineteenth century. 4.In paragraph 2, the author discusses Glossopteris in order to A. provide an example of a fossil species that was attributed to Gondwana on the basis of its wide distribution B. explain why the descriptions of ancient plants made by Adolphe Brongniart were not completely accurate C. establish the importance of nineteenth-century paleobotanist Adolphe Brongniart D. show that similarities among flora in the Southern Hemisphere continents were not limited to flowering plants 5.According to paragraph 2, current evidence indicates that Glossopteris had all of the following characteristics EXCEPT: A. It was deciduous. B. It was a type of fern. C. It had large leaves. D. It grew in wet soil conditions. 6.According to paragraph 2, what suggests that Glossopteris may have lived in a seasonal environment A. It grew in what is now Antarctica. B. It was a seed-bearing plant. C. There is evidence that it lost its leaves annually. D. There were stalks attached to its leaves. 7.The word prevailing in the passage is closest in meaning to A. best understood B. most controversial C. generally accepted D. recently proposed 8.According to paragraph 3, why did geologists initially hypothesize the existence of ancient land bridges across continents A. To explain how the continents may have drifted to their present-day positions B. To explain how organisms could spread across distant continents C. To argue against Wegener's theory of continental drift D. To help explain the present-day positions of the Southern Hemisphere continents 9.According to paragraph 3, what did Alfred Wegener and Alex Logan du Toit have in common A. Both were originally trained as meteorologists. B. Both had doubts about the hypothesis that Gondwana was once a single contiguous landmass. C. Both believed that continents change their position over time. D. Both believed that the present-day Southern Hemisphere continents were too far apart to have been linked by a land bridge. 10.The word incredible in the passage is closest in meaning to A. Unfamiliar B. Unsupported C. hard to understand D. impossible to believe 11.According to paragraph 4, Wegener and du Toit offered all of the following evidence in support of their hypothesis EXCEPT A. distributions of fossils across the Southern Hemisphere continents B. the geometric fit of South America and Africa C. similarities in rocks across the Southern Hemisphere continents D. differences in geological phenomena across the Southern Hemisphere continents 12.Paragraph 4 strongly suggests that the theory of continental drift was not widely accepted before the 1960s in part because A. the distributions of fossils such as Glossopteris were not yet generally known B. other explanations for the geometric fit of South America and Africa were available C. there was no satisfactory explanation for the movement of continents D. few scientists accepted the claims made by Wegener and du Toit about the similarities in the ages of groups of rocks 13.Drag your choices to the spaces where they belong. To review the passage, click on View Text.

Answer Choices A. The plants and animals collected during the eighteenth- and nineteenth-century voyages of discovery made it possible to advance important scientific theories. B. By 1828, fossils of Glossopteris had been discovered to have inhabited both the Northern and Southern Hemisphere continents in the remote geological past. C. To explain the observed distribution patterns of flora and fauna, scientists hypothesized that land bridges had linked the widely separated Southern Hemisphere continents in the geological past. D. The theory of continental drift, proposed in 1912, held that the Southern Hemisphere continents once formed an unbroken landmass and subsequently moved apart to their present locations. E. To support their hypothesis that continents are not fixed in their relative positions, Alfred Wegener and Alex Logan du Toit used paleomagnetic evidence to develop the theory of plate tectonics. F. Continental drift explained the distribution of organisms as well as the similarities in rocks and the geometric fit of Africa and South America, but the theory was not generally accepted until the 1960s. 