1.The word that in the passage refers to A. Mesoamerican art and architecture B. the ideological complexity, craft, and permanence C. the earliest civilization D. the permanent art and architecture 2.The word surplus in the passage is closest in meaning to A. advantage B. excess quantity C. system D. supply 3.According to paragraph 1, which of the following is true about the ceremonial centers established by the Olmecs A. The centers served as the burial places of ancient Olmec rulers. B. The inhabitants of each center had little or no contact with those in other centers. C. The centers featured major works of art and architecture that were made to last. D. The first and most important centers were built in the highlands. 4.Paragraph 1 supports which of the following ideas about Olmec society A. Major artists and successful traders had roughly equal status. B. The most important members of Olmec society resided in the highlands. C. More people were engaged in producing monumental works of art than were engaged in agriculture. D. There was a well developed social structure in which some individuals held more power than others. 5.The author put the word Maya in quotation marks in order to indicate that A. few Mesoamericans were familiar with the Maya calendar B. the calendar commonly attributed to the Maya was not actually developed by them C. the names of Mesoamerican gods were included in the Maya calendar D. it is doubtful that the Olmec and the Maya used the same calendars 6.According to paragraph 2, how was the antiquity of Olmec culture confirmed A. Through close study of the Maya calendar B. By archaeologists' success at tracing later Mesoamerican gods back to those of the Olmec C. By radiocarbon dating of Olmec objects D. By comparing different references to an ancient mother culture 7.Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information. A. Because the Kunz axe could not be linked with known Mesoamerican cultures of antiquity, investigators concluded that it was neither Aztec nor Maya. B. The ceremonial axe puzzled and intrigued investigators because it was neither Aztec nor Maya, nor was it from any other ancient Mesoamerican civilization. C. On the one hand the ceremonial axe was puzzling because it was not Aztec or Maya, and on the other hand it was intriguing because no other Mesoamerican culture made ceremonial axes. D. The Kunz axe puzzled investigators for years because, although it was clearly made in ancient Mesoamerica, it could not be attributed to any known Mesoamerican culture. 8.The word exhibits in the passage is closest in meaning to A. Displays 
B. Includes 
C. Combines 
D. introduces  9.The word embody in the passage is closest in meaning to A. utilize  
B. reveal  
C. incorporate 
D. clarify 10.It can be inferred from paragraph 4 that the author provides a very detailed description of the Kunz axe because A. the Kunz axe is more like later Mesoamerican art than it is like Olmec art B. the Kunz axe is a characteristic example of Olmec artistic style and principles C. the Kunz axe is the single most important and valuable piece of Olmec art so far discovered D. the face of the creature represented on the Kunz axe resembles a human infant 11.In paragraph 5, the author uses the example of the paw-wing motif in order to illustrate A. how Olmec images may be related to a few Olmec deities B. why jaguar imagery is the most important of Olmec animal imagery C. the importance of the paw-wing motif in cultures before the Olmec D. how images of animals from beyond the rainforest were represented in Olmec art 12.According to paragraph 5, which of the following is true about the Olmec symbolic code A. It included only animals that have paws or wings. B. It did not change significantly from one century to the next. C. It was not strongly connected to Olmec religion. D. It developed gradually over a thousand-year period. 13.Drag your choices to the spaces where they belong. To review the passage, click on View Text. A. Between 1500 B.C. and 100 B.C., the Olmecs developed complex ceremonial centers, an extensive agricultural and trading economy, and a highly distinctive art. B. Early in their history, the Olmec left the fertile gulf plain and moved to Teopantecuanitlan. C. The frequent reappearance of Olmec images in the art of the Maya and Aztecs suggests that the Olmecs gave rise to these later civilizations. D. The Kunz axe, once linked with Maya culture after being found at an ancient Maya site, was eventually attributed to Olmec artists. E. Many cultural innovations are now attributed to the Olmecs that were once attributed to other Mesoamerican cultures, including the calendar used by the Maya. F. Olmec art involved a complex symbolic code, including various animal images and the howling baby seen on the Kunz axe and elsewhere, that was used consistently for a thousand years. 