#article
  The preservation of forests has become a global concern as woodlands around the world are being rapidly depleted. The focus of environmental efforts has often centered on the thick forests of the tropics. Recently, however, interest has risen in establishing forests in more temperate (moderate climates) parts of the world. In particular, there has been interest in planting shelter forests in areas surrounding cool deserts in the Northern and Southern hemispheres. Environmentalists believe that planting large shelter forests in these temperate zones will benefit both human beings and the environment.

    First, shelter forests would benefit farmers by protecting farmland from desertification. Windstorms blow away the fertile topsoil of grasslands that surround deserts; this process gradually depletes land suitable for agriculture. The planting of shelter forests could slow or stop this process. The trees would block the harsh desert winds that blow away topsoil, and their roots would help prevent erosion. Some ecologists think that shelter forests could protect millions of acres of land that would otherwise become unavailable for farmers’ use.

    Second, shelter forests would create new habitats for animals. Forests are an important ecosystem, providing a home for many species of animals that cannot live on open plains or grasslands. As forests around the world are gradually cleared, key animal habitats disappear. The planting of artificial forests in otherwise barren areas could partially reverse this global trend, and could help expand the number of animal species greatly.

    Third, planting shelter forests in temperate zones would have a positive effect on the global climate. Global warming, a trend in which average global temperatures are increasing, is caused largely by the carbon dioxide gas released by human activities. Since plants absorb carbon dioxide as they grow, new forests contribute to the reduction of atmospheric carbon dioxide levels. Therefore, the large-scale planting of shelter forests would help slow global warming.


#record
Now listen to part of a lecture on the topic you just read about.

(male professor) It is not a good idea to plant shelter forest in temperate zones. There are more drawbacks than benefits to doing so. 

First, desertification is a serious threat to agriculture in some temperate areas but it is not clear that shelter forests would actually benefit local farmers. New trees would help prevent erosion, but they would also use up precious water that farmers depend on. Because shelter forests are intended to slow the spread of deserts, they are planted in areas with already limited water supplies and shelter forests have been found to use up significant amounts of groundwater in these areas. This reduces even further the water available to farmers for crop irrigation. 

Second, it's true that this plan would create some new animal habitats, but the overall benefits to animals would be limited. Shelter forests are planted in order to create a large forest as quickly as possible. Often they consist of just one type of fast growing tree. This is unlike a natural forest, which includes some types of trees that grow quickly but others that mature more slowly. Logically, if there's not very much diversity in the types of trees in shelter forests, then such forests would only support a correspondingly small number of species or types of animals. This is not very desirable for an ecosystem and the animals in it. 

Third, in certain situations, planting forests can actually contribute to climate warming. You see, the proposed shelter forests would be planted in place of grasslands. When you plant forests in a grassland area, the area may start retaining more heat than when it was just grass growing there. Why is that? Well, the leaves of trees in the forests can absorb and retain a lot of the Sun's heat, much more than grasslands would. And that can produce a warming effect. This could outweigh the positive effects that planting the trees could have in slowing climate warming.

#question
Summarize the points made in the lecture, being sure to explain how they respond to the specific points made in the reading passage.
