Listen to a conversation between a student and his English professor.

(man) Hi, Professor Harris, you got a minute?
(woman) Sure, Allan, what can I do for you?
(man) Well, it's about the literary magazine you mentioned in class last week, you know, the one that the English department puts out a few times each year?
(woman) Sure, are you trying to find the latest copy? I gave you a handout in class of the link to its Web site. There's information there about
(man) Um, I actually was interested in trying to get some of my writing in there, an essay I've been working on. And since you're on the editorial board, I thought I'd ask you about the likelihood of my essay actually ending up in the magazine.
(woman) Well, any student can submit his or her work to be published, but, that's only the first step. It has to be reviewed by the entire board.
(man) Well, I actually think I have a good idea. I came up with it after one of the lessons in your poetry class. You remember when we read a few Native American poems?
(woman) Of course, we looked at some traditional song poems from different communities.
(man) Right, well, I really enjoyed those works and I've been reading more outside of class, especially contemporary ones. I've identified some recurring themes and elements that, well, I think it can make a good piece to publish.
(woman) OK, so it sounds like literary criticism. We accept all kinds of writing, you know, original poetry and, uh, non-fiction pieces, so this might work. What specifically are you focusing on?
(man) Well, I'm interested in the role of the grandfather in these modern poems. This character appears often and I'd like to analyze how he's represented, you know, what he symbolizes.
(woman) That's an interesting idea. You know, there actually was a student a couple of years ago who submitted an essay on a similar topic. I believe she focused on the concept of myth in Native American story telling. It did end up getting published.
(man) Oh, so this could work?
(woman) Well, I think you're on the right track. Also, you might take a look at some of the more traditional poems, you know, side by side with the modern ones. You're planning to look at the way the grandfather figure's treated in modern poems. Well, you could compare that to how the same figure's treated in traditional poems. I think this will open things up a bit for you, you know, give you more to say.
(man) That's a good idea.
(woman) And you may also want to think about the language these poets use, how it may tie in with the strong oral tradition in many Native American communities. The authors you're reading, many of them can probably remember listening to their elders tell stories. So, when you're doing your analysis, pay attention to the way the poems flow, whether there's repetition, you know, feature of spoken language.
(man) OK, thanks for your help.