Listen to part of a lecture in an Astronomy class.

(male professor) OK, let's get back to the Sun, this time looking at the outermost layer of the Sun's atmosphere, the corona. It's made up mainly of the elements hydrogen and helium, although carbon, nitrogen and oxygen are also present in trace amounts. And these elements, well, they wind up streaming away from the Sun and through space as part of a phenomenon called the solar wind.

Now, this solar wind, it's blowing through space, right? But what happens when they reach Earth? Well, Earth is surrounded by a magnetic field that provides a certain amount of protection. But if the solar wind is strong enough, it can penetrate the magnetic field and cause storms. And a powerful storm can really disrupt out lives here on Earth. Uh, back in 1989, a magnetic storm caused satellites to lose attitude and even caused power blackouts in Canada and the United States. So you can see why it's important to study the solar wind. Satellites collect information on wind speed and particle density for use in making predictions about the solar wind and possible solar storms. So there's a lot of data, a lot of different things being measured and recorded and one major question is how do we organize and present this data? Now, we usually use what's called scientific visualization.

Scientific visualization, in the form of charts or graphs, allows us to look at information and try to pick out patterns or anomalies. We can then go back to the original data to analyze it further. But while scientific visualization is a useful tool, the information can become visually overwhelming, especially when we're dealing with complex sets of data. Now, you may not know this but the ear, as opposed to the eye, is much better at making sense of complicated information and discerning patterns in what otherwise might seem completely random data. So, if solar wind data could be integrated, the different types of information layered somehow, and put into an audio format, well, it'd be a lot easier to notice, or in this case, hear patterns or anomalies. And that's what happens with sonification.

In sonification, data is converted into an auditory format. So, audio with no human speech is used to organize and present data. And it has several applications. Think about Geiger counter as an example. The Geiger counter is a handheld device that measures levels of radiation and uses a clicking noise to indicate the level, so the faster the clicks occur, the greater the level of radiation. Another example: seismic data from certain volcanos in Italy and Ecuador have been sonified in the hopes that researchers monitoring volcanic activity might be able to more accurately make predictions about volcanic activity, so the idea behind sonification aren't new.

Now, as you might imagine, sonification is multidisciplinary. It pulls from research and knowledge about human perception, acoustics, design, the arts, engineering, computer programming, and in this case, astronomy. So, getting back to sonification, how does it work with solar wind data?

Well, an American astronomer recently asked a music composer to sonify solar wind data. Since there's no standardization in how data can be sonified, the composer was given a fair amount of artistic license. In this case, the end result was not clicks but rather something that sounded more like a musical composition. In this composition, three sets of data that affect or are related to solar wind are included: the rotation speed of the Sun, the velocity of the helium in the solar wind, and the different charged state of the carbon in the solar wind.

Now, the speed at which the Sun's rotating that's represented by drum beats, the next element of this musical representation is the velocity of the helium in the solar wind and that's represented by a sort of crashing noise like simple crashes and the faster these crashes come, the faster the helium's traveling. The third element is the charged state of the carbon, you know, how many electrons it has. To sonify this data, the composer took a sample of a woman humming, no words, just a vocalization. As the charged state of the carbon changes, the sound of her voice changes.

Unfortunately, the astronomer who initiated this project hasn't discovered anything new. But, he's certain and I agree with him here that the continued use of sonification will allow us to more easily uncover connections in large sets of data.