Listen to part of a lecture in an Archaeology class.

(female professor) Now, we know that shell was an important material for these people. At several excavated sites, we've recovered ancient shell objects with holes and wear marks on them, suggesting that they were used as tools or were strung together as jewelry and, Peter, you have a question?

(male student) Yeah, I was wondering. How do we know if a piece of bone or shell was actually used as a tool? I mean, just because a shell has some holes in it, does that mean somebody made them? Couldn't it just be natural wear?

(professor) Excellent question. How do you decide if marks on an ancient object are natural or not? Actually, there's some fairly new work that suggested a set of criteria, at least for holes in shell or stone. One scientist collected shells from a beach and he made holes in them using different processes or techniques, scratching, sawing, grinding, gouging, and hammering. Then when he examined the holes under the microscope, he was able to see distinct marks left by three of those processes. Scratching, sawing, and grinding all left very distinctive markings. So, if we see similar markings on an ancient artifact from an excavated site, we have a pretty good idea of both that the holes were created by humans and how they were made, you know, what technique was used. That's why experimentation has become so important in archeology. By recreating these objects, we get a much deeper understanding of the people who made them. Amy, you looked a little puzzled.

(female student) Well, I'm just wondering. I didn't realize they recreated stuff, like, as an experiment. I guess it's sort of new to archeology.

(professor) Yes, Amy, it is.

(female student) But what does it really tell us about the culture we're studying? I mean, even if we know how the objects were made, what does it tell us about the people that we did already know?

(professor) Well, it lets us figure out how people used the objects, uh, gives us a sense of why these objects were made. You can get a sense of an artifact, say, an arrowhead, just from looking at it and handling it. But you get a very different sense of it if you make one and use it.

Let me give you another example. One scientist wanted to investigate shields from Bronze Age Ireland. All of the shields that have survived are made of bronze with the exception of one leather shield. Of course leather deteriorates over time, so it's not surprising that only the metal ones were found. But because there were so many bronze shields, it's simply been assumed that these were the kind used in battle. Well, this one scientist made replicas of the leather shields and bronze shields. And he and one of his colleagues had a mock battle using the shields and typical Bronze Age weapons. What do you think? Which shield held up better?

(male student) Well, the bronze one, metals are harder than leather.

(professor) Some metal, yes

(male student) Oh, but not bronze?

(professor) Right! It was the leather shield that held up. The bronze one was just shredded. So this scientist demonstrated that the bronze shields we have couldn't have been used in battle. They must have been ceremonial. These ancient people were using leather in combat. Similarly, there are scientists working on spearheads and arrowheads. They create arrowheads from various materials like stone or animal antlers and they test them to find out why ancient people chose one material over another.

We've learned, for example, that antler arrowheads are very strong are even more durable than stone points. We never would have known any of this had someone not done the experiments.
