Listen to a conversation between a student and a professor of his Music Theater course

(woman) So, Peter, how's that outline coming?
(man) That's not due till Friday, right?
(woman) That's right. As I recall you're doing research on the music of George Gershwin? You need to narrow your topic down; give it more focus.
(man) I'm getting to that later this week, uh, but, well, what I wanted to ask about was, well, remember I told you I'd be visiting my hometown to see my sister perform in a community theater production?
(woman) You mentioned that last week. I'm delighted to see so many theater-goers in class. I mean, it's fine to take a course on musical theater, learn its history, but I hope it also enhances your appreciation when you see new musicals.
(man) It does. And whenever I talk to friends about a musical they've seen and I chime in with information about it, they're so impressed. In fact, some of them told me they'll be signing up for your course next semester.
(woman) That's great to hear.
(man) Anyway, like I was saying, this musical play I just saw, it's called Crazy for You, and wow! What a great performance! My sister practically stole the show. But, well, I was really confused because the program said the music was by George Gershwin, but I've already started my research on Gershwin. This was before you told me I had to narrow down my topic and I don't remember seeing any Gershwin's musicals with that title.
(woman) Good point. This actually ties in with something we'll discuss during our unit on contemporary trends. It's called a jukebox musical.
(man) Jukebox musical? Let me write that down. That's jukebox, like that old machine we found in the musical department storage room?
(woman) Probably, the jukebox was popular in the 1940s and 50s. It's a machine that stores phonographic records and lets users select the songs to be played. 
(man) Like what I do with my MP3 player?
(woman) Or many other electronic devices today, the term ¡°jukebox musical¡± was going to refer to musicals where an original storyline is written to accommodate a set of pre-existing songs.
(man) So, you mean, those songs in Crazy for You were composed before the play was written?
(woman) Long before, in the 1930s, and the storyline of the play, which was written around those songs, wasn't written until 1992.
(man) Hmm, 1992, is that when jukebox musical started, you know, being popular?
(woman) Actually, jukebox style musical movies have been around since the 1940s. But the real jukebox musicals on stage and with a strong plot, well developed characters and so on, those didn't take off until the early 2000s. 
(man) Hmm, so, maybe, you know, if I researched this and how the genre became popular, 
(woman) Yes, and define it, its basic elements, perhaps give examples.
(man) Like Crazy for You and include something about Gershwin's songs.
(woman) But remember,
(man) I know. Keep it focused. I'll have that outline ready Friday.
