Listen to part of a lecture in a Biology class

(female professor) Fossil records have helped us trace the ancestry of many animals. But we don't always have a complete picture. For example, take birds. Fossil records suggest that birds are descended from dinosaurs. Now, in evolutionary terms, flight is pretty much the defining characteristic of birds. But how did flight begin?

The evolutionary origins of flight have been the subject of an ongoing debate. Were the ancestors of birds originally earthbound? Or did they start as tree dwellers? Controversy's been swirling around this topic for years. An important step in developing a hypothesis about the evolution of bird flight is establishing bird's evolution lineage. Can we identify their ancestors? One step toward the answer to this question was a discovery of the first fossil specimens of Archaeopteryx in Germany in the mid-1800s.

Like dinosaurs, Archaeopteryx had teeth, scales and a long bony tail. But like birds, it had wings and feathers. And recent 3D reconstructions of Archaeopteryx's brain indicated that it also had the sight, balance, and coordination necessary for flight. Therefore, Archaeopteryx was seen by many as the evolutionary link between birds and dinosaurs, irrefutable proof that modern birds evolved from dinosaurs. But while evidence of this link is valuable, Archaeopteryx doesn't tell us how or why some dinosaurs evolved the ability to fly in the first place. In fact, fossils show us that Archaeopteryx had wings that were almost identical to those of modern birds. What that means is that wings had already been around for a while by the time of Archaeopteryx.

So, to find out more about the origins of flight, we need to go farther back in time to the ancestors of Archaeopteryx. But, unfortunately, the fossil record has generally been less than helpful about what came before Archaeopteryx. So, it was only possible to speculate about how and why flight evolved. OK, so, until very recently, there have been two dominant hypotheses of how flight may have evolved in the ancestors of Archaeopteryx: an arboreal scenario and a cursorial one.

The arboreal hypothesis proposes that early birds like Archaeopteryx are descended from tree-dwelling dinosaurs that evolved feathered limbs in order to better propel themselves from tree to tree. So the assumption is that bird flight evolved from the activity of jumping and gliding or parachuting down the branches of trees. In the process, wing flapping developed as a means of steering and to aid gliding.

The cursorial camp, on the other hand, contends that the ancestors of birds were ground-dwelling, uh, fast-moving two legged predators. The cursorial hypothesis is that flight evolved from the ground up, as these dinosaurs developed wing-like adaptations that increased their power and control while running and making long leaps in pursuit to prey.

Now, the overwhelming consensus used to be that Archaeopteryx was arboreal, a tree dweller, which would lead us to believe that its ancestors probably were too. However, newer evidence, fossils of what looked like feathered dinosaurs, suggest that Archaeopteryx might actually be a descendant of those cursorial, two-legged, ground dinosaurs I mentioned. This would mean Archaeopteryx could have come from a line of ground dwellers whose flight originated in a ground upward direction. For a long time, the pendulum had swung between the cursorial and arboreal hypotheses. One would get popular then we would find evidence supporting the other. To complicate things there is now another hypothesis of how flight originated the pouncing hypothesis.

The pouncing hypothesis suggests that the truth might be somewhere in the middle between the cursorial and arboreal ones. According to the pouncing hypothesis, flight evolved from terrestrial hunting behaviors. Similar to what cursorial hypothesis suggests. But those hunting behaviors involved pouncing on prey from elevated positions, jumping over rock or tree branch, for example. And this aspect of jumping downward from above is related to the arboreal hypothesis.

And yet another twist, more recently, we found the fossils of another bird-like species that is even older than Archaeopteryx. What about those animals? Were they arboreal, cursorial, or did they pounce? There's definitely a lot of research still to do.
