Listen to part of a lecture in an Anthropology class

(female professor) OK, you read an article for today's class about the early history of metallurgy. So, what is metallurgy? Frank

(male student) It's, uh, everything having to do with metals, like, lead, copper, you know, mining it, refining it, mixing it with other metals, making things with it, with or without the use of complex technology.

(female professor) OK, now the article says that basic rudimentary metallurgy started between 11,000 and 9,000 BCE in southwest Asia. So during that time people must have been wondering how they could utilize the metals they came upon from time to time in nature. So one big question has been, "Did these people first think to make practical objects with it, say, things they might need like sharp objects or other useful implements?ยก" In other words, was metallurgy born out of necessity?

(male student) Well, according to the article, metallurgy probably began as a way to satisfy aesthetic interests, because the oldest metal objects we found are necklace beads and such, things used to decorate, adorn the body. So, it seems people's first thought was to make beautiful things with it, not necessarily practical things.

(professor) Right, and this idea's widely accepted now by anthropologists. The idea actually came from a science historian named Cyril Stanley Smith. Smith theorized decades ago that the origin of techniques or processes for working with new materials almost always stemmed from aesthetic pursuits.

For example, as Frank alluded, prehistorical metallurgists made jewelry from hammered metal way before making useful metal knives. And welding, well, welding's where you use heat to join pieces of metal. OK, so, welding was first used in sculpture to join parts of bronze sculptures together. And Smith had a lot of additional examples of how aesthetics drove discoveries in fields other than metallurgy.

So, as I said, most anthropologists agree with Smith's idea. But there is debate over how metallurgy came to appear throughout Europe and Asia after it initially came to be practiced in southwest Asia. Central to this debate is how sophisticated metallurgical process called smelting came to be widespread.

OK, so what's smelting? In nature metals are often embedded in rock, right? And rock containing metal is called an ore. Smelting involves first heating the ores so you can extract metal from it and then purifying the metal so that you can make things with it. Long before smelting, metals that weren't embedded in rock were used in metallurgy but it was difficult to find large amounts of these metals. So smelting was a significant technological event. Now, the first evidence of copper smelting dates to 5,000 BCE in southwest Asia. And within four thousand years smelting came to be practiced throughout Europe and Asia. And what does the article you read say about how this came to be, Claire?

(female student) One hypothesis is that smelting was invented independently in a bunch places in Europe and Asia, like without anyone from one region teaching the process to people in the other regions. But smelting's a really complex process. Why would anyone think that it could just spring up in so many different places at virtually the same time?

(professor) Good question. What you just described can be called the multiple points of origin hypothesis. The multiple points of origin hypothesis assumes that people all over the world are similar enough in their cognitive makeup, uh, their basic mental processes that every society will eventually undergo a common and inevitable series of advancements over time. Smelting would be one of those advancements. That said, there's not much evidence that smelting rose independently in multiple places.

And wouldn't it make more sense for there to be a direct transfer of knowledge of the process from one community to the next? I mean, Claire's right. Smelting's not simple. Before extracting metal from ore, you first have to know where to look for the right kind of ore; find fuel for fires that burn hot enough to heat the ore et cetera. I mean, you'd almost certainly have to be taught the process. To me, an alternate hypothesis, the diffusion hypothesis, makes more sense.

The diffusion hypothesis states that smelting was invented in a single place and subsequently spread, diffused, from region to region. This diffusion would involve the movement of skilled metal workers into settled communities who taught the people there the process.
