Listen to a conversation between a student and a university housing official

(man) Hi, um, this is university housing, right? I need to talk to someone about changing residence halls.
(woman) OK, let me give you an application to fill out.
(man) I already did that last week. But I haven't heard anything so I thought I should come by and see what's going on with it.
(woman) Oh, OK, uh, your name?
(man) Eric Palmer. 
(woman) OK, Eric, let's see. The system says you're currently at 212, Harris Hall. Is that right? Hey, didn't you and your roommate recently win the room decorating contest?
(man) Oh, wow, you heard about that?
(woman) Oh, yes, we keep up on all the news of residence life. Congratulations. 
(man) Thank you.
(woman) OK, so, I see here that you want to change to Bradford Hall. Why is that? I mean, you must like your current dorm. You went to a lot of trouble to decorate your room.
(man) Yeah, but my brother and I share a car and he lives in Bradford, I have to walk all the way over there whenever I need to use it.
(woman) Your parking permit should allow you to park near your building as well.
(man) Yeah, that's gonna happen! You don't know my brother. Anyway, he needs the car for an evening job off campus so it's got to be at his place overnight.
(woman) I see. Well, the problem is that Bradford Hall was overbooked this semester.
(man) Overbooked?
(woman) Yes, each year, there are a lot of students to apply to the residence halls and then at the last minute end up, uh, taking a semester off from school or deciding to go to an entirely different university, whatever the case. Anyway, usually if we don't overbook, we end up with a lot of empty rooms.
(man) But not there aren't enough rooms.
(woman) Yes, once in a while, more students show up than we expect. That's what happened here. We'd have to put some students three to a room until we can move them to other halls.
(man) Hmm, so I can't get into Bradford Hall. What about the next building over, Smith Hall?
(woman) Well, because of the overbooking, students moving out of Bradford Hall have priority. That means applications submitted for other reasons such as yours will have to wait.
(man) Do you have any idea how long it might be?
(woman) We hope to be able to resolve the overbooking by the end of this month. Then we can look at other requests to change residence halls.
(man) Do you think it'll happen before the weather gets cold? I'm not looking forward to walking through snow and ice to get to the car.
(woman) Well, I can't make any guarantees. We still have to look at a lot of applications. Tell you what, check back in a couple of weeks and we'll see how things look then.
(man) OK, thanks.
