Listen to part of a lecture in an Art History class

(male professor) So, let's continue our discussion on the arts and crafts movement in United States in late nineteenth century. Remember that this was an artistic movement in response to industrialization. Artists were increasingly frustrated with mass-produced low quality household items of the industrial era. These artists really wanted to get back to the idea of quality work made by skilled craftspeople. And coincidentally, because of industrialization, many people in the United States were finding they had a lot more leisure time. And some people took up art as a hobby. So, suddenly, there were many amateur artists, you know, people making their own art but not as a profession. You also had art exhibition showing up in major cities across the United States, which exposed people to art from all over the world.

Today we're going to focus on a really beautiful art form that came out of this period, china decoration, which was actually a very popular hobby for women at this time. China decoration involved painting porcelains such as plates, bowls, and vases. Now, it was kind of interesting how this particular art form became popular. It was a combination of several factors, really, some that I just mentioned. Also around this time, home decorating magazines and books were becoming quite popular. Americans were really caught up in the idea of art as a part of everyday life. So, everyday cups and bowls, for instance, could be beautiful as well as practical.

Then, in the middle of this artistic fever, we have the 1876 Centennial Exhibition in Philadelphia, which was essentially a huge fair, showcasing new inventions and notable art. It was a very big deal at that time. It attracted people from all over the country. Where else could you see Alexander Graham Bell demonstrate the telephone for the first time or Thomas Edison present his famous automatic telegraph?

Here was an event at the forefront of new advancements in technology. But the Centennial Exhibition was also significant because it essentially triggered the china decorating movement. A few prominent women artists who had been studying china painting had their work displayed at the Exhibition. Not only did this inspire a nationwide interest in china decoration, some of these amateur artists eventually went on to become quite successful professional artists.

Uh, let's get back to the amateurs. Across the country women began forming china painting clubs and they studied this form of painting quite seriously. It's important to keep in mind that while this artistic pursuit was large a leisure activity, decorating china required a high level of technical skill. In big cities women had the advantage of being able to take classes offered by professional artists or to invite these artists to visit their clubs. Obviously, this wasn't an option in more rural areas. But, fortunately, some of the most well-known china painters at that time published their own books on this subject, which were great educational resources for anyone who wanted to study the art form.

Now, I'd like to talk briefly about perhaps the most prominent artist to emerge from this movement, Adelaide Alsop Robineau. Robineau was a gifted artist and designer. She began as a painter, self-taught actually, but she eventually moved to New York to continue her studies. She went on to teach china painting and she published a very successful monthly magazine about china decoration. But it's her porcelain making that's so amazing. Here was someone who didn't just paint blank porcelain pieces premade by someone else, which was what most china painters did. She actually worked with her porcelain through the entire process: from creating the pieces to painting them.

Her work was so extraordinary it was displayed at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City, an appropriate honor for such an incredible artist. Now, by the 1920s, the arts and crafts movement had basically ended and with it the popularity of china decoration. It seems there was just no escaping the machine age and the conveniences of modern technology. The arts and crafts movement had promoted this old fashioned ideal that didn't seem to have a place anymore in such a modern world.

Hand crafted pieces for the home were just too expensive for most people. So they turned, once again, to mass-produced goods. Well, you get what you paid for I guess. These items may be affordable but their poor quality does little to bring beauty to our everyday lives.
