#article
Seagoing Fish

Most fish spend their entire lives in one environment. However, young fish and adult fish may have different survival needs. Thus, certain kinds of fish stay in freshwater when they are young, and then migrate, or travel, to salt water once they reach a certain age. Species of fish that exhibit this behavior are known as seagoing fish. When seagoing fish are young, they have the best chance of survival in a freshwater environment. However, as they get older, a saltwater environment meets their survival needs better. In this way, moving from a freshwater to a saltwater environment as they mature helps seagoing fish to survive.

#record
(male professor) OK, so a good example is a type of salmon that scientists have studied in Japan. These salmon breed in rivers and the baby salmon hatch in these rivers and the young salmon continue to live in the rivers for a few years until they grow to their full size. The rivers are good places for young salmon to live because the water's shallower than in the ocean and so most really big fish, fish that might eat them, don’t live in the rivers because the rivers aren’t deep enough. Even if there are some big fish, the young salmon can hide among the rocks or the roots of the plants growing in the river more easily than they would out in the open ocean.

The young salmon can quickly swim up to the surface from these hiding places to eat an insect on the surface before darting back down into safety. So scientists think that the young salmon are safer from predators in rivers than they would be in the ocean. But, then, once the salmon grow larger and more mature, and become less vulnerable to predators, they travel to the ocean. Because when they are mature, they eat more than just little insects. They eat other sea creatures for food that they can find in the ocean but not in the rivers. So if they go to the ocean, the salmon can find more food more easily and grow bigger and stronger. The salmon eventually return to the rivers to breed and spawn more baby salmon.

#question
Explain how the example from the lecture illustrates the concept of sea-going fish.

