1.	What was the purpose of the research studies described by the professor?
A.	To find out how scrub jays hunt for food
B.	To find out how scrub jays communicate with each other
C.	To find out whether scrub jays can anticipate their future needs
D.	To find out whether scrub jays' diet affects their learning

2.	Why does the professor mention the Bischof-K hler hypothesis?
A.	To present a widely held belief that was recently challenged
B.	To present an unpopular belief that was recently proved true
C.	To present a belief about birds' behavior that helps to explain human behavior
D.	To present a belief about birds' behavior that does not apply to other animals

3.	In the first study described, what were the scrub jays trained to do?
A.	Eat at a specific time each morning
B.	Eat a specific kind of food
C.	Form associations between specific times of day and specific kinds of food
D.	Form associations between specific locations and the availability of food

4.	What does the professor imply about the results of the second caching study?
A.	They suggest that scrub jays cache food to meet anticipated needs.
B.	They contradict the results of the first caching study.
C.	They show that regular feeding discourages caching.
D.	They show that scrub jays cache more efficiently when observed than when alone.

5.	In the second study described, what was the reaction of the scrub jays whose caching behavior had been observed by other birds?
A.	The scrub jays stopped caching when the other birds left.
B.	The scrub jays later returned and re-cached the food.
C.	The scrub jays abandoned the food that they had cached.
D.	The scrub jays stole food that had been cached by the other birds.

6.	What is the professor's opinion of the scrub jay studies?
A.	They reveal the mental processes scrub jays use to make decisions.
B.	They raise doubts about the Bischof-K hler hypothesis.
C.	Their results are not reliable.
D.	Their conclusions are not supported by the evidence.
