1.	What is the lecture mainly about?
A.	The portrait that was the basis for an authentic sculpture of William Shakespeare
B.	The engraving on the cover of a famous writer's first published works
C.	A debate surrounding the subject of a portrait painted in the 1600s
D.	A sculpture, engraving, and painting found within a family's private art collection

2.	What does the professor imply about testing that was done on a portrait?

A.	The results showed that Shakespeare was born later than originally thought.
B.	The testing was carried out against the wishes of the owner.
C.	The wood base was easier to test than the oil paint.
D.	The results verified that the portrait was painted during Shakespeare's lifetime.

3.	Why does the professor mention the queen's laws?
A.	To criticize the restrictive clothing regulations of the period
B.	To explain why some people think the man in the painting could not have been a playwright
C.	To illustrate the queen's support of the arts and literature during her time
D.	To explain that only certain classes of society were allowed to pose for portraits

4.	According to the professor, what is a notable characteristic of portraits painted during the early 1600s?
A.	Portraits were often modified after a person's death.
B.	The type of frame indicated the social status of the subject.
C.	Portraits of ordinary people became common.
D.	Portraits often did not show people's unattractive features.

5.	What has been confirmed about the first owner of a controversial painting?
Click on 2 answers.
A.	The owner supported Shakespeare financially.
B.	The owner made a living as a portrait painter.
C.	The owner was a member of Shakespeare's family.
D.	The owner shared the same political beliefs as Sir Thomas Overbury.

6.	What is the professor's opinion of an art historian's theory that the Cobbe portrait is not of Shakespeare?
A.	He agrees with the conclusions of the theory.
B.	He believes that there is evidence that disproves the theory.
C.	He feels that only certain parts of the theory are convincing.
D.	He thinks more analyses are needed before the theory can be taken seriously.
