1.	What is the main purpose of the lecture?
A.	To show how Wright's design philosophy evolved over time
B.	To discuss why some of Wright's work has been misinterpreted by the public
C.	To analyze how a common theme in Wright's designs was applied to the construction of a building
D.	To demonstrate the difficulties involved in maintaining a building that has a unique design and structure

2.	According to the professor, how did Wright make use of boulders at Fallingwater?
Click on 2 answers
A.	As a structural foundation to support the house
B.	As steps between the floors in the house's interior
C.	As a way to modify the flow of the waterfall during construction
D.	As an interior feature serving as a reminder of the exterior landscape

3.	What is one student's interpretation of the artistic significance of the concrete balconies?
A.	They imitate the arrangement of rocks below the house.
B.	They affirm nature as a stronger force than the structures created by people.
C.	They serve as a background for reflected light from the waterfall below.
D.	They create the illusion that the house is larger than it actually is.

4.	Why does the professor mention the polished stone floors in Falling water?
A.	To provide an example of how Wright rejected an earlier design theme
B.	To illustrate how Wright used a natural material to suggest the element of water in his design
C.	To identify a material in the house that would not be easily worn down by water
D.	To point out that some of the building materials had to be delivered from a long distance away
5.	What does the professor say about the construction of the concrete balconies?
A.	Wright was annoyed with how long it took to construct them.
B.	Wright had originally wanted to extend them out farther than they now extend.
C.	They were initially designed to be made of steel.
D.	They contain more steel rods than Wright had initially planned to use.

6.	What is the professor's attitude about the water repairs done at Fallingwater?
A.	They would inevitably have been needed because of the building's age.
B.	They should not have taken as long as they did.
C.	They could have been avoided with adequate planning.
D.	They need to be checked on a more regular basis by structural experts.
