1.	What does the professor mainly discuss?
A.	The planning and building of imperial villas during the Roman Empire
B.	The artistic and economic role of imperial villas during the Roman Empire
C.	The reconstruction of a Roman imperial villa from recently discovered drawings
D.	The daily lives of architects, artists, and workers who built Roman imperial villas
 
2.	What does the professor imply about the first excavations of imperial villas?
A.	They were carried out primarily by artists and amateur art historians.
B.	They led to unexpected discoveries regarding the numbers of villa inhabitants.
C.	They did not provide much information about the purposes the villas served.
D.	They uncovered statues made from materials that were not commonly used in Rome.

3.	According to the professor, what does a group of massive sculptures in one imperial villa reveal about the emperor who owned it?
A.	He was interested in exploring new artistic ideas.
B.	He preferred to be surrounded by images of himself and his family.
C.	He hired sculptors to replicate statuary found in Rome.
D.	He filled only a small number of the villa's rooms with statuary.

4.	According to the professor, what evidence suggests that Diocletian's villa was used as a factory?	Click on 2 answers
A.	Remnants of textiles in some of the rooms
B.	Traces of dyes in empty containers
C.	A large aqueduct leading to the villa
D.	Sulfur in the local water

5.	Why does the professor mention small holes found in the sides of some pools at one villa?
A.	To demonstrate the destructiveness of eighteenth-century treasure hunters
B.	To show how archaeologists determined that the villa was once used as a fish farm
C.	To explain how the pools were fed naturally by waters from the nearby sea
D.	To show a technique used by one emperor to make his estate more distinctive

6.	What is the professor's opinion regarding the economic impact of villas built by wealthy  landowners?
A.	Their impact was so localized that they were unaffected by the fall of the empire.
B.	The closer they were to Rome, the greater their chances of financial success.
C.	They were profitable enough to have played a role in the decline of the empire.
D.	Their impact was felt mostly by other nearby landowners rather than in Rome.
