1.	What is the discussion mainly about?
A.	Effects of climate change on migratory animals
B.	A strategy for protecting endangered species
C.	Threats to aquatic habitats in the Pyrenees mountains
D.	Ways to control the spread of invasive species
 
2.	Why does a student mention the introduction of shrimp into a lake in Montana?
A.	To point out a possible danger of assisted migration
B.	To explain why certain species are good candidates for assisted migration
C.	To suggest that assisted migration can benefit several species at the same time
D.	To give an example of a new assisted migration program that is being considered

3.	According to the professor, how did climate change affect the two butterfly species that she discusses?
A.	It dried up the water supply in their habitat.
B.	It made them vulnerable to predators.
C.	It caused a decrease in their food supply.
D.	It made it hard for them to reproduce.

4.	What does the professor imply about the biological costs of relocating wildlife?
A.	The biological costs can be eliminated with careful planning.
B.	The benefits almost always outweigh the biological costs.
C.	It may be difficult for scientists to anticipate all of the biological costs.
D.	There have been minimal biological costs involved to date.

5.	What are two reasons that the Iberian desman may be a good candidate for assisted migration to the Alps, Scotland, or Scandinavia?
Click on 2 answers
A.	Its current predators inhabit those areas.
B.	It would be the only species of its kind in those areas.
C.	It is unlikely to spread beyond those areas.
D.	It would attract beneficial species to those areas.

6.	What is the professor's opinion about the proposal to use assisted migration to save the Iberian desman?
A.	She is surprised that it is controversial and believes that it will be beneficial if closely followed.
B.	She thinks that it will benefit the Iberian desman but will harm other species.
C.	She appreciates that the researchers will proceed with it slowly.
D.	She believes that efforts should have been made to rescue the Iberian desman sooner.
