#article
  Gulf sturgeon are large fish that weigh up to 200 pounds (91 kilograms). They live in Florida rivers during the summer months, after spending the winter in the seawater in the Gulf of Mexico. In Florida, they attract a lot of attention by their habit of jumping several feet out of the water and returning with a loud splash. Three different explanations for why sturgeon jump are often proposed.

    Feeding
    Some fish species jump out of the water to catch flying insects. There are certainly plenty of insects in the subtropical air of summertime Florida. Moreover the sturgeon jump most frequently in the early morning and evening when most freshwater fish feed. For these reasons, many people believe that the sturgeon are jumping to catch food in the same way that a trout jumps from the water to catch a fly.

    Parasite removal
    All animals have parasites, and many have evolved behaviors for getting rid of them. Fish have parasites that attach to their scales, so it seems reasonable to suppose that sturgeon jump to remove parasites. Indeed, not only do the sturgeon vigorously shake themselves in the air, they almost always hit the water with great force on their sides. This way of striking the water reinforces the idea that the sturgeon are trying to shake or knock off parasites.

    Aggression
    Every year a number of tourists riding in boats are injured when they are hit by jumping sturgeon. To the tourists this does not seem accidental. After all they are invading the sturgeon’s territory, and that is a circumstance that often provokes an animal to attack. Indeed the sturgeon jumping is most intense at the height of the tourist season, which to the tourists seems to confirm that they are the object of the sturgeon’s anger.

#record
Now listen to part of a lecture on the topic you just read about

(female professor) The truth is that no one understands why the sturgeon jump, not scientists who have studied the behavior and certainly not the tourists who just see them jumping. Although we don’t know the true cause of the jumping, it’s very easy to explain why the seemingly common-sense explanations in the reading passage are actually wrong.

One of the most surprising things about Gulf sturgeon is that during the summer months when they are in Florida, they don’t eat any food at all. That’s because they’ve been feeding all winter in the Gulf of Mexico. And moreover, when they feed in the Gulf of Mexico, they don’t feed on insects. On the contrary, sturgeon are bottom feeders with special mouth for collecting food from the sea floor. So they’re certainly not jumping to catch food.

What about the parasite theory? Sturgeon do have parasites, but the dangerous ones are internal parasites not ones on the scales. It’s true that some sturgeon that are raised on fish farms develop external parasites on their scales, but the sturgeon on the fish farms do not jump. So there does not seem to be any connection between external parasites and the jumping sturgeon.

As for the attack theory, I’m sure from the tourist’s point of view it seems like aggression when a two hundred-pound fish collides with a small boat. But the truth is that the tourists in fast-moving boats who run into the sturgeon do so accidentally. It happens because the sturgeon jump out of the water just as the boat is speeding by. In fact, the sturgeon are observed to jump whether a boat is in the area or not.
#question
Summarize the points made in the lecture, being sure to explain how they reply to each of the three explanations presented in the reading passage.
