#article
 The vampire squid is a medium-sized ocean cephalopod that has not been extensively studied. For example, it is not clear what this creature eats. Some biologists have proposed a theory that vampire squids feed on so-called “marine snow” – bits of floating organic debris. However, there are several reasons for doubting that the vampire squid primarily feeds on marine snow.
    Minimum-oxygen zones
    First, the larger particles of organic debris that form marine snow occur at relatively great depths below the ocean surface. At such depths there is very little oxygen. Few animals can breathe adequately in these minimum-oxygen zones for any length of time. Thus, because of the lack of oxygen, vampire squids would probably die if they had to feed primarily in areas where marine snow is available.
    Vulnerability to predation
    Second, feeding on marine snow would make vampire squids vulnerable to attacks by predators. Feeding on marine snow requires a vampire squid to keep very still as the organic debris slowly collects on its long arm, which the squid then brings to its mouth. If vampire squids had to spend most of their time feeding in this way, they would be too easy for predators to detect and catch. Whales, sea lions, or large predatory fish could dive down and snap up the motionless squids, seriously reducing their numbers.
    Behavior of other cephalopods
    Third, the vampire squid is ca cephalopod. Cephalopods are a group of animals that includes octopuses, squids, and cuttlefish. Every other known cephalopod is a hunger that actively seeks out or pursues living prey. Feeding on dead organic material such as marine snow would make the vampire squid very different from all its relatives. Such a difference is not easy to explain.

#record
Now listen to part of a lecture on the topic you just read about

(male professor) Actually, the theory that the vampire squid feeds primarily on marine snow is probably correct. Each of the objections you read about fails to consider some important information.

First, let's look at oxygen requirement in minimum oxygen zones. Many ocean predators need a lot of oxygen because they exert a lot of muscle energy as they chase down prey. But if vampire squids are eating marine snow then they are not chasing prey. Marine snow flows down constantly in minimum oxygen zones, so the vampire squids' main food source comes right to them. So, because of the way they feed, vampire squids require less oxygen compared to most other animals. Living in the minimum oxygen zones is not a problem for them.

Second, about being vulnerable to predators, vampire squids are normally dark colored. Predators have a hard time finding the dark-colored squids as they drift nearly motionless in deep waters where there is very little light. And even if the squid is spotted by a predator, the squid has the ability to produce natural light on its body's surfaces. The appearance of these light is startling and scares predators away. So, as you can see, the squid is well-protected against the dangers of keeping motionless to feed.

Third, it's true that the vampire squid's feeding behavior may be unusual in the context of cephalopods as a group. But, there's a good explanation for why an animal species would have different feeding habits than its relatives. You see, being different from other members of the cephalopod group is, in fact, an advantage for the vampire squid, because of its diet, the vampire squid can live in areas of the ocean in which most other animals, including other species of squid for example, cannot survive. Without other squids competing to eat the same food, the vampire squid has an easier time finding enough to eat.
#question
Summarize the points made in the lecture, being sure to explain how they cast doubt on the specific points made in the reading passage.