1. Paragraph 1 answers which of the following questions about groundwater?  A) How much of the fresh water supply in the United States is in frozen form?  B) Why is more groundwater used by the rural than the nonrural population?  C) What are the consequences when groundwater supplies diminish?  D) In what areas of the United States is the overuse of groundwater a problem?2. Which of the following can be inferred from paragraph 2 about the drying up of wells?  A) Wells that draw on large aquifers, such as the Ogallala, are not likely to go dry unless the entire aquifer is depleted.  B) In many areas of the United States, the levels of the water table varies seasonally, often causing wells to dry up temporarily.  C) A well in one place can go dry because of overpumping from another, deeper, well located in a different part of the aquifer.  D) A well the dries up because of a cone of depression in the local water table will probably recharge itself within a few years.3. According to paragraph 2, which of the following is NOT true of the Ogallala Aquifer today?  A) It reaches a depth of four hundred meters.  B) It contains more water than all the freshwater lakes, streams, and rivers on Earth.  C) It stretches beneath a vast area covering eight states.  D) It is made up of sand, gravel, and sandstone.4. The word "diverting" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) redirecting  B) using up  C) blocking  D) collecting5. According to paragraph 3, all of the following can delay the refilling of aquifers EXCEPT  A) their slow rate of recharge  B) the building of urban areas over aquifer recharge zones  C) the prevention of runoff from reaching reservoirs  D) the presence of glacier water6. The word "excessive" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) sudden  B) too much  C) continuous  D) dangerous7. According to paragraph 4, how has subsidence affected coastal cities?  A) It has caused the excessive buildup of river sediments.  B) It has decreased the amount of groundwater pumping.  C) It has lowered the ground level, causing nearby water to flood.  D) It has caused a decline in population growth.8. In paragraph 4, the author discusses the sinking of Mexico City in order to  A) compare the reasons it is sinking to the reasons that the San Joaquin Valley in California has been sinking  B) provide evidence that groundwater shortages have been a problem since Aztec times  C) give an example of a city that has experienced rapid population growth and urbanization despite groundwater overuse  D) emphasize that subsidence is not limited to coastal areas9. The word "capacity" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) requirement  B) effectiveness  C) development  D) ability10. According to paragraph 5, which of the following is true about sinkholes?   A) When they form, underground channels and caverns are usually not damaged.   B) Drawing water from aquifers and caverns encourages them to form.   C) Depending on the depth of the underground channel or cavern, they form gradually or more rapidly.   D) As damaged pores between rock particles are restored, they are reduced in size.11. The word "widespread" in the passage is closest in meaning to   A) predictable   B) serious   C) common   D) direct12. In paragraph 6, why does the author discuss areas with saltwater deposits from ancient oceans?   A) To illustrate how a freshwater source can be damaged by saltwater   B) To compare the effects of aquifer depletion in areas on coastlines to areas with saltwater deposits from ancient oceans   C) To suggest how freshwater reservoirs near saltwater deposits can be preserved for agricultural and domestic use   D) To demonstrate that aquifers in areas with deposits from ancient oceans are being overused for domestic and agricultural purposes13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   And since most glacial water is not readily available, the world has come to depend largely on groundwater.   Where would the sentence best fit?14. Prose Summary   Groundwater makes up a significant proportion of the water used in the United States for domestic and agricultural purposes.   Answer Choices:   A) Heavy pumping withdraws water from aquifers faster than it can be replaced, leading to the drying up of wells, rivers and lakes, and even the whole aquifers.   B) Changes in climate have slowed the rate at which aquifers are naturally replenished with older aquifers filling more slowly than younger ones.   C) The large Ogallala Aquifer has become so depleted from pumping that some parts of the area it covers now subsided by up to 400 meters.   D) The ground in coastal and inland areas has been sinking as large amount of groundwater are removed.   E) The spread of water flow in underground channels or caverns determines whether a cone of depression forms in the local water table.   F) As a result of groundwater loss, underground channels or caverns may collapse, sinkholes form, and the pores between rock particles may be destroyed, resulting in the permanent loss of aquifers.