1. The word "diminishing" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) ending  B) spoiling  C) changing  D) reducing2. The word "rudimentary" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) possible  B) primitive  C) microscopic  D) continued3. The word "it" in the passage refers to  A) deep freeze  B) evidence  C) planet  D) life4. According to paragraph 3, scientists believe all of the following about meteorites from the Moon and Mars found on Earth's surface EXCEPT:  A) Earth's gravity caused them to fall to the surface.  B) They left their parent bodies quite recently.  C) Impacts knocked them off their parent bodies.  D) They make up only a small proportion of the meteorites found on Earth.5. According to paragraph 3, why do planetologists believe that some of the meteorites found on Earth are from Mars?  A) The fossil evidence in the rocks appears to match previously known early life on Mars.  B) The red coloration of the rocks is much like the present coloration of Mars.  C) The rocks appear to have originated in an explosive impact known to have occurred on Mars.  D) The gases in the rocks are the same gases currently found in Mars's atmosphere.6. According to paragraph 4, why do the globules in a particular Martian meteorite suggest the possibility of life?  A) Dating of the globules based on cosmic-ray exposure suggests they originated when life would have been most likely on Mars.  B) The color and size of the globules suggest they came from early water-based life.  C) The carbonate in the globules could only have formed if water were present on Mars.  D) The globules contain traces of water that have been preserved by the frozen temperatures of Antarctica.7. What does the author imply with the phrase, "extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence" ?  A) Data that individually seems to support the idea of life on Mars actually weakens this idea when considered collectively with other data.  B) Scientists believe that traces of Martian life would be very different from structures found on Earth.  C) Scientists would require stronger evidence than that obtained from ALH84001 to prove that life once existed on Mars.  D) Scientists believe that the traces of PAHs found in ALH84001 provide extraordinary evidence of life on Mars.8. According to paragraph 5, all of the following have been interpreted as evidence of life in ALH84001 EXCEPT  A) similarities between the globules in ALH84001 and structures produced by bacteria on Earth  B) the presence of iron-rich crystals in ALH84001 that resemble crystals that are made by bacteria on Earth  C) the presence of chemicals in ALH84001 that are associated with the decay of Earth organisms  D) the presence of tiny, tear-shaped markings in ALH840019. The word "controversial" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) surprising  B) persuasive  C) debated  D) interesting10. The word "hence" in the passage is closest in meaning to   A) around   B) at least   C) thus   D) indeed11. According to paragraph 6, what is one reason for thinking that the elongated, egg-shaped structures in carbonate globules are not fossilized organisms?   A) The structures are not shaped like bacteria on Earth.   B) Bacteria would not have been able to function inside the carbonate globules where the structures appear.   C) They contain combinations of chemicals unknown on Earth.   D) The structures are much smaller than cells of ancient bacteria on Earth.12. In paragraph 6, why does the author state that amino acids, cell walls, and semipermeable membranes are properties of primitive fossils found on Earth?   A) To cast further doubt on the evidence for Martian life   B) To contrast Earth's primitive life with that of Mars   C) To describe the unique properties of Earth's fossils   D) To identify some of the properties needed for life to develop13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   Close study of the rock began soon after its discovery.   Where would the sentence best fit?14. Prose Summary   Although it is unlikely that life exists on Mars today, there may have been enough liquid water before the Martian ice age to sustain primitive life.   Answer Choices:      A) If Mars's atmosphere was once warm and wet enough for life to develop, the best evidence of living organisms could be fossilized bacteria preserved in meteorites.   B) Some meteorites have been found on Earth that scientists believe to have originated on Mars before its ice age, and one of these could indicate whether some simple life forms had developed.   C) Because Martian meteorites were exposed to cosmic rays before falling to Earth, any sings of Martian life that they may have contained were probably destroyed.   D) Places on Earth, like Antarctica, that have frozen conditions similar to those on Mars when its meteorites were ejected provide scientists with sources of evidence of ancient Martian life.   E) Many scientists believe that the most convincing evidence that life once existed on Mars is the liquid water inside globules of carbonate matter recovered from Martian meteorites.   F) Although a Martian meteorite was found to have chemicals and structures like those produced by simple life forms on Earth, it contains no evidence of ancient Martian life.