1. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.  A) Amphibians have not been able to develop the structures or processes needed to survive in the desert.  B) Desert amphibians survive not through physical adaptations or organic processes but by being active and reproducing during favorable conditions.  C) The life history of desert amphibians begins with reproduction followed by short periods of activity.  D) Desert amphibians require favorable conditions in order to develop the kinds of physical adaptations needed to survive in the desert.2. According to paragraph 3, the spadefoot toad is able to survive the drier winter season for all of the following seasons EXCEPT:  A) It remains inactive deep underground during the winter months.  B) It is protected from harsh conditions by a layer of un-shed skin that surrounds its body.  C) It is able to survive losing half of the water from its body.  D) It warms itself during periods of less extreme temperatures.3. The word "Hastening" in the process is closest in meaning to  A) Waking up  B) Moving  C) Hurrying  D) Returning4. The word "prolong" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) stimulate  B) extend  C) improve  D) protect5. Why do spadefoot tadpoles "agitate the water and stir the mud" of their aquatic habitat?  A) To help reduce predation by other species  B) To speed up metamorphosis  C) To escape from their aquatic nursery once they have fully metamorphosed  D) To deepen their pool of water so it dries up less quickly6. Paragraph 4 suggests that which of the following affects the timing of when spadefoot tadpoles emerge from their shells?  A) The number of spadefoot eggs in the water  B) The number of eggs laid by the female  C) The temperature of the surrounding water  D) The rate of their metamorphosis7. According to paragraph 4, the metamorphosis of spadefoot tadpoles is accelerated if  A) the fertilized eggs hatch too soon  B) water is warmer and more plentiful than average  C) water is evaporating more quickly than development is occurring  D) the tadpoles are too small to avoid predation8. Paragraph 4 mentions all of the following as reasons for the high mortality rate among spadefoot toad tadpoles EXCEPT  A) predation by adult spadefoots  B) cannibalism of small tadpoles by larger tadpoles  C) predation by other species  D) evaporation of pools before the tadpoles have fully developed into adults9. In describing some species as "strictly" aquatic, the author means that these species  A) exist in aquatic environments only  B) require specific kinds of aquatic environments  C) spend part but not all of their lives in water  D) normally require aquatic environments10. According to paragraph 6, why might fairy shrimp cysts in the Mojave Desert tend to hatch when temperatures are near freezing?   A) Desert rain contains the most salts during the winter.   B) The heaviest rains in that area generally occur during the coldest time of the year.   C) Cold weather prevents the playa's salts from entering the water.   D) Damaging playa floods are less likely to occur when temperatures are low.11. What can be inferred from paragraphs 6 and 7 about fairy shrimps of the Mojave Desert?   A) They spend only a small part of their lives as adults.   B) Cysts hatch during several seasons of the year.   C) Cysts that take more than ten days to develop are more likely to survive.   D) Adults usually reproduce multiple times during their lives.12. The word "readily" in the passage is closest in meaning to   A) generally   B) usually   C) quickly   D) occasionally13. Prose Summary   The presence of animals that are dependent on water in the desert environment may seem surprising but it does occur.   Answer Choices:   A) Semiaquatic and aquatic species survive in the desert by concentrating their activity and reproduction within brief periods when water is available.   B) Adult spadefoots can survive years of drought by staying dormant underground, but as soon as heavy rains come they mate and tadpoles mature fast to reach adulthood before pools dry up.   C) When pools begin drying up too quickly, tadpoles often survive by burying themselves in mud until they have become fully metamorphosed into adults and are capable of reproduction.   D) Semiaquatic and aquatic species reproduce in underground pools of water that are protected from drying up.   E) Aquatic fairy shrimp cannot survive without water as adults, but their cysts stay dormant until the right conditions give them a chance to hatch, mature, and reproduce.   F) Fairy shrimp cysts must be able to stay dormant for longer periods than adult spadefoot toads stay dormant because the near-freezing temperatures the cysts require to survive occur very infrequently.