#article
Ancient texts describing trade conducted in the eastern Mediterranean region 3,000 years ago mention a kingdom named Ophir. According to the texts, the eastern Mediterranean received frequent shipments of rare woods, gems, and even exotic animals from Ophir. But where was Ophir located? Although historians are not completely certain, many believe that Ophir was somewhere in South Asia (present-day Pakistan or India), for several reasons.
    Origin of the Goods
    First, many goods traded by Ophir's merchants seem to have come from South Asia. The goods included rare woods native to South Asia, as well as ivory from elephants, who were also typical inhabitants of South Asia. Archaeologists have uncovered evidence of ancient civilizations in South Asia that were remarkably wealthy and traded with many partners in different parts of the world.
    Long Time Needed for Shipments
    Second, records indicate that a voyage from Ophir to the eastern Mediterranean took a year and a half, a travel time consistent with the idea that Ophir was located in South Asia. Since its shipments took such a long time to reach the Mediterranean, Ophir must have been a considerable distance from the Mediterranean. Ophir could not have been located on the Arabian Peninsula or some nearby region. Ophir must have been a distant land, and its location in South Asia would have made it just that.
    Similar Words
    Third, the words used in ancient Mediterranean texts for some goods from Ophir, such as ivory and peacocks, are similar to words used for the same items in ancient South Asian languages. It is logical to think that when people of the ancient Mediterranean bought things they had never seen before, they borrowed the names of those items from the people who sold them.

#record
Now listen to part of a lecture on the topic you just read about.

(male professor) Unfortunately, we still don’t know where the kingdom of Ophir was located. The arguments supporting the theory that it was located in South Asia are not very convincing.

First, the fact that Ophir merchants traded South Asian goods like rare woods and ivory doesn’t necessarily mean that Ophir was in South Asia. In the ancient world goods produced in various places were first brought to trading centers. Ophir may have been a trading center. That would mean that rare woods and ivory were first brought from South Asia to the trading center of Ophir, which may have been located somewhere else. The South Asian goods were traded in Ophir and then merchants brought them from Ophir to the Mediterranean.

Second, yes, it took more than a year for goods from Ophir to reach the Mediterranean, but this is not evidence that Ophir was located far away. Remember, navigation and sailing techniques were very primitive 3,000 years ago. Ships had to stay close to the shore to avoid becoming lost and also made frequent stops. This method of travel was slow. So even a ship sailing from a less distant place like the Arabian Peninsula could take a year or more.

Third, yes, a few words used in ancient Mediterranean text are similar to South Asian words, but if the similarity between languages is just limited to just a few words, it's usually not considered good evidence that there has been any contact or relationship between the languages. Here's an example. English speakers and speakers of one native Australian language use the exact same word for dog. But we know for a fact that there hadn’t been any early contact between England and Australia that could explain their similarity. And so we know that the similarity is simply a coincidence. And the same is probably true about the similarities mentioned in the reading.
#question
Summarize the points made in the lecture, being sure to how they challenge the specific points made in the reading passage.
