1. What is the main purpose of the lecture?
  A) To discuss how a movement in the early 1900s affected all the arts
  B) To discuss a narrative style associated with the Modernist novel
  C) To point out similarities between a twentieth-century literary style and earlier styles
  D) To explain the influence of the nineteenth-century novel on the Modernist novel

2. According to the professor, what features set Modernist novels apart from earlier novels? [choose two answers]
  A) Their increased use of dialogue
  B) Their lack of chronology
  C) Their focus on details
  D) Their neglect of grammar rules

3. What opinion does the professor express when he discusses the narrator in Modernist novels?
  A) The narrator's explanations of the action may seem contradictory.
  B) The narrator's presentation of the thoughts of many different characters can be misleading.
  C) The narrator's inclusion of several different plots can confuse the reader.
  D) The narrator's restricted role makes the novels challenging for the reader.

4. What point does the professor make when he mentions Shakespeare's use of interior monologues? [choose two answers]
  A) The monologues and stream-of-consciousness writing serve similar purposes.
  B) The monologues typically do not reveal the private thoughts of Shakespeare's characters.
  C) The monologues are more coherently structured than stream-of-consciousness writing is.
  D) The monologues are used only by the narrator in Shakespeare's plays.

5. What point does the professor make about the element of time in James Joyce's Ulysses?
  A) Brief moments in time can be explored in depth.
  B) Time is a subject that the characters discuss often in the novel.
  C) The timeless quality of the characters is appealing to readers.
  D) Time is the central theme of the novel.

6. What point does the professor make when he says this:  
  A) Nineteenth-century literature was often filled with realistic details
  B) Modernists tried to explain the significance of seemingly unimportant actions
  C) The sequence of human thought can seem random
  D) Characters in literature often act without first thinking carefully

