1. What is the lecture mainly about?
  A) How the diet of shorebirds changes from when they nest to when they migrate
  B) How shorebirds of the same species work together to gather food
  C) How large numbers of shorebirds are able to find enough food in a small geographical area
  D) How environmental changes have altered the typical diets of migratory shorebirds

2. What does the professor say about shorebirds nesting habits?
  A) Shorebirds' nesting sites vary from year to year.
  B) Shorebirds typically nest close to an area that has a variety of food sources.
  C) Shorebirds typically nest close together in group.
  D) Shorebirds are more territorial during nesting season than other seasons.

3. Why does the professor mention a grocery store?
  A) To help students understand that various species of shorebirds do not actually compete for food
  B) To illustrate that humans and shorebirds share some of the same food sources
  C) To emphasize the variety in the diet of a particular shorebird species
  D) To demonstrate the abundance of food available at feeding sites along the shoreline

4. How do Dowitchers differ from Dunlins in the way they find food?
  A) Dowitchers hunt for food farther up on the beach.
  B) Dowitchers hunt for food that is deeper in the mud.
  C) Dowitchers hunt for food in shallower water.
  D) Dowitchers hunt for food in groups.

5. What are two characteristics of biofilm that help explain the feeding behavior of some shore animals? [choose two answers]
  A) It is found on the surface of shoreline mud.
  B) It is produced by mud snails and clams.
  C) It consists mainly of tiny crustaceans.
  D) It has a high carbohydrate content.

6. How did researchers react to new evidence about the diet of western sandpipers?
  A) The researchers were pleased to confirm an earlier hypothesis.
  B) The researchers were concerned that sandpipers were eating such large number of clams.
  C) The researchers were surprised to learn that sandpipers' main source of food was not what they had originally thought it was.
  D) The researchers were skeptical of the findings and requests additional research.
