1. What is the lecture mainly about?
  A) Why the chemical composition of some exoplanets prevents them from being detected
  B) A recent discovery of an exoplanet that has prompted the invention of the vortex coronagraph
  C) Enhanced techniques for observing planets outside our solar system
  D) Some common misunderstandings about powerful telescopes

2. Why does the professor mention seeing a flashlight shining next to a spotlight?
  A) To clarify how most telescopes function
  B) To point out that some exoplanets can appear brighter than their parent stars
  C) To help explain what diffraction patterns look like
  D) To illustrate the difficulty of detecting exoplanets that orbit close to stars

3. What are two indirect methods that astronomers have used to detect exoplanets? [choose two answers]
  A) They look for rings surrounding distant light sources.
  B) They look for the periodic reduction of light from a star.
  C) They look for the presence of other known exoplanets in the same star system.
  D) They look for slight movements of a star.

4. What main benefit of adaptive optics does the professor mention?
  A) They block out all light sources from stars close to the parent star.
  B) They are able to combine images from two separate telescopes.
  C) They adjust for the distortion of a star's image caused by Earth's atmosphere.
  D) They measure the amount of wobble of a parent star.

5. Why does the professor discuss a series of alternating bright and dark rings around a star?
  A) To point out a limitation of the traditional coronagraph
  B) To explain how the color of the coronagraph's disk is important to the coronagraph effectiveness
  C) To explain a problem with the technology of the vortex coronagraph that has not been solved
  D) To emphasize the importance of using a lens that is just the right size for the telescope

6. What does the professor imply when he says this:  
  A) It is very difficult to detect an exoplanet, regardless of the method used.
  B) Astronomers are not satisfied with the amount of information indirect methods of detection provide.
  C) Some direct methods of detection are less useful than indirect methods for detecting exoplanets.
  D) The exact location of an exoplanet can be confirmed by detecting a wobble in the parent star.
