1.What is the purpose of the lecture?
A)To explain various symbols used in Bronze Age mythology
B)To discuss theories about the function of an ancient artifact
C)To examine reasons for imperfections in a Bronze Age calendar
D)To attempt to prove the age and origin of a recent archaeological discovery

2.What does the professor indicate about the symbols on the Nebra disc?
A)Some of them do not accurately reflect the way objects appear in the sky.
B)Some of them have not been preserved well enough to be clearly understood.
C)They are all commonly found in central European cave art.
D)They are similar to symbols found on other Bronze Age discs.

3.What two features of the Nebra disc were most important for its use as an astronomical instrument by Bronze Age people? [choose two answers]
A)The size of the Sun relative to the stars
B)The width of the crescent Moon
C)The direction that the tips of the crescent Moon are pointing
D)The cluster of circles resembling the stars of the Pleiades

4.Why does the professor mention a thirteenth month in the lunar calendar?
A)To emphasize the difference between modern and ancient calendars
B)To explain how lunar calendars can be adjusted to more closely match solar calendars
C)To point out a fact that may have been misunderstood by the Bronze Age people
D)To prove that Bronze Age people used several different kinds of lunar calendars

5.What attitude toward the Nebra disc does the professor express when she discusses the Babylonian documents?
A)She believes it led directly to important discoveries by Babylonian astronomers.
B)She believes it was probably more accurate than the Babylonian calendar.
C)She is surprised at how great an understanding of astronomy it indicates.
D)She is disappointed that it was not accurately described in ancient documents.

6.What does the professor conclude about the use of the Nebra disc?
A)No strong evidence exists about how the Nebra disc was used.
B)Much more research is needed before scholars can prove the Nebra disc was used in rituals.
C)The Bronze Age people were not the first to make use of the Nebra disc.
D)The way ancient people used the Nebra disc probably changed over time.
