#article
  An island located a few kilometers off the northeastern Russian coast is home to fourteen stone labyrinths – circular or spiral mazes – dating to around 3000 B.C.E. Situated in a small area of the island near the ocean, the labyrinths range in diameters from 6 meters to about 25 meters, with walls about 40 centimeters tall (see illustration). To this day, the purpose of these structures remains unknown, although several hypotheses have been advanced.
    One possibility is that the labyrinths were designed as fish traps. The sea level was high enough back then for seawater to flow into the structures. Fish would enter the labyrinth, and, as they swam toward the center of the maze, they would become confused and unable to swim their way out. Trapped within the stone walls, these fish would have been easy for people to catch.
    Another hypothesis is that the labyrinths had an astronomical purpose. Ancient peoples often built stone structures that were designed to record astronomical observations such as the position of the Sun during different times of the year. The way the stones in these structures usually line up corresponds with the position of the Sun or some other astronomical object or event. In a similar way, the Russian labyrinths may have been built to line up with astronomical phenomena.
    A third hypothesis is that the labyrinths played an important role in an ancient people's burial practices and its rituals for the dead. Other ancient stone structures, such as Stonehenge, a famous stone circle in England, played a role in such rituals. According to this hypothesis, the labyrinths were built as passages to the afterlife. The passageways would ensure that after entering the labyrinths, the spirits of recently deceased people would be guided from the land of the living to the land of the dead.


#record
Now listen to part of a lecture on the topic you just read about

(male professor) There are still much room for mystery when it comes to these labyrinths, because, in fact, all the explanations you just read about are flawed. 

The idea that the Russian labyrinths were used for fishing seems convincing until you start investigating similar structures around the world. There are many ancient labyrinths that were built worldwide and while a number of these labyrinths are located near the sea, just as many are located hundreds of kilometers inland, which means that they are far away from coastal areas where they could have served as fish traps. Therefore, these labyrinths must have served a different function.

The astronomical theory has a problem as well. As you read, there are 14 stone labyrinths on this Russian island. Each labyrinth has one entrance. If the labyrinths were intended to line up with some astronomical phenomenon, as the reading claims, we’d expect all or most of the entrances to point at a definite direction, toward a specific astronomical object, like a specific star or a specific position of the Sun. But the fact is that the entrances of the labyrinths point in many different directions that seem to be unconnected with astronomical phenomena. So the astronomical purpose is unlikely.

Finally, the idea that the labyrinths were related to burial practices doesn’t hold up, either. Ancient tribes did indeed build impressive structures that were used in burial ceremonies to honor their dead. The thing is, human remains, bones, and human possessions, including tools, jewelry, and weapons, are always found near those sites. For example, researchers uncovered thousands of bones and tools near the Stonehenge circle you read about. With the labyrinths, however, no such remains have ever been found, even though the places had been dug up extensively. So, if the ancient people living there were not burying their dead close to the labyrinths, it's unlikely that their purpose was related to funeral rituals.
#question
Summarize the points made in the lecture, being sure to explain how they cast doubt on the specific theories mentioned in the reading passage.
