Listen to part of a lecture in an Engineering class

(male professor) This week we've been discussing the recent efforts in construction to build a greener, uh, a more ecologically sustainable way. Today I'd like to talk about the role of cement in modern construction. Now, cement is used to make concrete and it's important that you keep in mind the difference between the two. Cement is the powdery substance that's sold in bags. You can take the dry cement, mix it with sand and rocks and water, and when that mixture dries it hardens and becomes concrete.

Concrete's an important material, because it can be used for almost any building application, from sidewalks and flooring to foundations to, uh, walls, for example. And remember, all that concrete's been made from cement. We may think of concrete as part of the modern urban landscape but the truth is it isn't so modern at all. In fact, the ancient Romans also used cement to make concrete and maybe the Egyptians before them. But, um, they weren't using modern cement.

Now, modern cement, uh, what we use today, is called Portland cement. Portland cement's been around since the early 1800s and has been an amazingly successful and popular building material ever since. The main ingredient is limestone. But for the limestone to be usable as cement, it first needs to be heated and turned into a powder. OK, we're talking about ecologically sustainable building, right? The problem here is that the process of making Portland cement is ecologically dirty.

Carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas and a main contributor to the global warming problem. And huge amounts of carbon dioxide are emitted twice during the cement-making process. First, that limestone rock has to be melted and this, of course, requires extremely high temperatures, which means using huge amounts of fossil fuels, and that means creating carbon dioxide. And on top of that, the limestone itself emits carbon dioxide gas into the air when it's heated.

Researchers have been trying to make a better cleaner form of cement and they've mostly focused on finding new materials to mix into the old Portland cement formula to replace some of the limestone. One of the first attempts to make greener cement involved the mineral compound magnesium oxide. Compared to limestone, magnesium oxide melts at a much lower temperature. So, not as much fossil fuel needs to be burned when it's prepared for use in cement.

The problem was, though, that even when magnesium oxide was used to replace some of the limestone, it still resulted in large amounts of carbon dioxide emissions. In fact, in some of the tests, nearly double the amounts that came from the limestone process. This is because of the way magnesium oxide itself is made. It's produced by heating magnesium carbonates and in this process carbon dioxide is released.

Now, other attempts were made using things like ash and coal residues, but the fact is they were trying to improve a product whose chemistry is not well understood. How concrete hardens? What are the chemical changes taking place? We don't yet have all the answers. Recently, the search for greener cement has led us to an interesting place: the Egyptian pyramids.

It's commonly believed that the pyramids were built by carving huge solid blocks of rock and then hulling them into place. However, some researchers concluded that some of the blocks were cast in place, using a type of concrete with a cement base. Even they looked like solid rock, powerful microscopes have revealed that their molecular structure is different, more similar to a mixture.

Now, a lot of archeologists don't accept this. There's still controversy. But based on their discovery, these researchers have tried to replicate the process. And what they found is that by using minerals similar to those used by the Egyptians, the massive amount of heating used in Portland cement isn't necessary. We'll go into detail later, but apparently all the Egyptians did and all these researchers have to do is blend the mixture like baking bread without an oven. And this method holds some promise.

All right, now, the real obstacle that any new cement technology has faced is the proven track record of Portland cement. I mean, it's hard to think of any other industrial product that's been around so long, is relatively cheap, and still holds up so well. But if these researchers are right about the pyramids, well, there's no doubting how well and how long that material is held up, right?
