Listen to part of a lecture in a Sociology class

(female professor) Today we're gonna look specifically at what's called architectural sociology, which examines how architecture influences and reacts to sociocultural phenomena. This field uses sociological perspectives, uh, sociological research to enhance building design. And we're gonna start by looking at front porches on houses in the United States.

So, the front porch was traditionally a semi-open area built on the front of a house, uh, a place to sit and read a newspaper, enjoy the fresh air; socialize with neighbors. But for a long period, the desirability, um, the number of homebuyers demanding a front porch attached to their new house was declining. We'll get into the reasons for its decline in a moment and also the reason that's kind of making a comeback these days. First, let's consider two concepts: push forces and pull forces. The history of the front porch in the US actually illustrates these forces well. What do you think they mean? Yes, John?

(male student) Um, I'm guessing, uh, things that either draw you or pull you onto a front porch or the things that push you away from it?

(professor) Well, you're right about the push forces. Push forces are the characteristics, the things that make front porch undesirable or unlikely to be used. So, can you think of any push forces that might be related to the front porch?

(female student) The weather? If it's too hot or too cold?

(professor) Right, sure

(female student) Maybe even insects, mosquitos, if you're sitting outside?

(professor) OK, good, and in the 1920s, something was happening in the United States that made porches less desirable, anyone?

(male student) Uh, cars? Cars were becoming really popular.

(professor) Exactly! And how do you think the cars acted as a push force?

(male student) Well, cars back then were a lot louder and smokier, I mean, they polluted more. So, sitting on your porch with the noise and pollution, I guess people didn't want to do that.

(professor) And another thing, people who now own the car wanted a garage to put it in, often the porch was sacrificed to make room for a garage. OK, so, uh, let's move on to pull forces. These also take people away from the front porch. In the summers, the porch used to be a cool and breezy place compared to the inside of a house, which was often hot and humid. But eventually there was a new way to get cool. I'm talking about the invention of the air conditioner and that technological advance would be considered a pull force.

(female student) I get it. All pulling us inside away from the porch and I'd guess there was a lot more, too, uh, computers, video games, television?

(male student) But, to be honest, I really don't see the downside to not having a front porch to sit on. I mean, watching people walking up and down the street isn't really a very exciting thing to do. Besides, who has time for that?

(professor) Well, people's lives have become a lot busier than it used to be, but, many homes still has a place for, say, gathering with family and friends. Something has replaced the front porch you see, the back yard. Many people see it as much safer for children than the front porch, which is facing the street. And it'd also offer more privacy. But what's lost here? What's the difference between sitting on a front porch and sitting in the back yard?

(female student) Interactions with neighbors

(professor) Exactly! So privacy is gained but interactions with neighbors are lost. But, like I mentioned earlier, there's a new trend. Front porches are starting to make a comeback, Houses in many new developments are being built with porches specifically because people see the value in getting to know their neighbors, uh, in developing a real sense of community. So, are these new front porches actually being used? Well, those push and pull forces still exist. They are real and they are strong, probably stronger than people's good intentions.

