1. According to paragraph 2, one benefit of the outgrowths from an insect's thorax might have been to  A) allow the insect to sense the presence of predators  B) prevent the insect from being carried away by air currents  C) allow the insect to glide through the air for a longer distance  D) aid the insect in climbing up plants2. The word "fulfilling" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) performing  B) developing  C) replacing  D) combining with3. The word "function" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) plan  B) role  C) form  D) habit4. Which of the following best describes the "endite-exite theory" ?  A) Hinges on leg appendages evolved from paranotal protowings.  B) The development of muscle systems led to the evolution of short leg segments.  C) Wings grew outward from the end of flap-like structures on the body.  D) Protowings evolved from the joining of inner and out parts of legs.5. Which of the following is NOT mentioned in paragraph 3 or 4 as being a problem with the paranotal theory of insect-wing evolution?  A) Wings require hinged structures.  B) Insects of today have sensory receptors on their wings.  C) Wings developed at the thorax could not have supported an insect's weight while gliding.  D) Wing flapping requires a system of muscle control.6. In paragraph 4, why does the author mention that campaniform sensilla are "only ever found on appendages, not body segments" ?  A) To identify a chemical-sensing organ that is not found on the thorax of an insect  B) To provide more evidence for the theory that wings evolved from legs  C) To argue that wings may have evolved as organs for the sense of smell  D) To explain how insects use wings to avoid stresses and strains7. The word "retained" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) active  B) important  C) kept  D) featured8. Why does the author discuss the behavior of "some stoneflies" ?  A) To suggest how the gills of aquatic insects might have evolved into wings capable of flight  B) To show that some insects are able to use their wings for purposes other than flight  C) To give an example of an insect that has developed muscles for flapping its wings  D) To contrast the use of gills in stoneflies with the use of gills in ancient mayflies9. According to paragraph 5, what could have been the final development that enabled aquatic insects to fly?  A) Larger muscles  B) Hinged gill flaps  C) Larger gill covers  D) Sail-shaped wings10. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.   A) Debate over the purpose of wing evolution in insects has ended with the conclusion that wings evolved as a means to avoid predators.   B) Whether wing evolution in insects was significant for insect safety in the Paleozoic is a matter of debate.   C) Predator avoidance was difficult for insects during the Paleozoic because wings did not evolve until about 230 million years ago.   D) Wings might have evolved mainly as a means to avoid the many predators that endangered insects during the Paleozoic.11. The word "sophisticated" in the passage is closest in meaning to   A) common   B) obvious   C) effective   D) complex12. What can be inferred from paragraph 6 about how an early insect learned that a predator was near?   A) Wind would carry the predator's smell to sensory receptors on the insect.   B) A predator's approach would cause a response in specialized hairs on the insect.   C) An insect's protowing would vibrate when a predator was close.   D) Nerve impulses would pass between the thorax and abdomen when a predator was near.13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   The research showed that protowings less than 1.3 centimeters long would have helped insects absorb heat from sunlight.   Where would the sentence best fit?14. Prose Summary   The paranotal theory of wing evolution in insects does not account for the kind of structures needed to allow flapping of wings.   Answer Choices:   A) A significant cause of wing evolution was the need to develop structures capable of regulating body temperature.   B) The theory that wings evolved from appendages is supported by the fact that legs had hinged structures as well as sensory receptors like those on the wings of today's insects.   C) According to one theory, wings evolved from gills and allowed aquatic insects to skim along the surface of the water and eventually life above the surface.   D) As aquatic insects such as ancient mayflies developed wings, their tracheal gills developed into organs for breathing both under water and in the air.   E) As the number of predators declined after the Paleozoic period, insect habitats became overcrowded, giving an advantage to those who could fly in search of new habitats.   F) Wings may have evolved from the need to escape predators, causing insects to develop structures that allowed them to fly.