1. The word "rudimentary" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) incomplete  B) reliable  C) functional  D) primitive2. Why does the position that "The marks must have been made by using a sharp cutting tool or by twisting a pointed object to form a hole in the surface of the bones" support Marshack's hypothesis?  A) It implies that the marks on the bones were intentionally made rather than the result of a natural process of wear.  B) It proves that 20,000 years ago, people had already developed tools.  C) It suggests that the pattern of cut marks made by Paleolithic peoples in France may have originated in central Africa.  D) It confirms what other researchers have concluded about the origins of the marks.3. According to paragraph 1, how does Marshack interpret the cut marks found on bones that he claims are lunar calendars?  A) He interprets each mark as representing a phase of the moon from crescent to full.  B) He interprets groups of marks as being representations, one mark per day, of half a lunar cycle.  C) He interprets the interval between individual marks as representing the time between the crescent and full moon or the time between the full moon and a new moon.  D) He interprets the marks as representations of the moon's shape when first sighted each night during a lunar month.4. The word "motives" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) reasons  B) methods  C) requirements  D) rewards5. The word "anticipate" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) calculate  B) prepare for  C) predict  D) determine6. The word "foundation" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) recognition  B) development  C) result  D) basis7. According to paragraph 2, Marshack believes a lunar calendar would have allowed Paleolithic inhabitants of Europe to do all the following EXCEPT  A) keep track of the periods within the lunar cycle that will provide extended light  B) associate sequentially structured events with marks to provide an early form of measurement  C) record the dates of important events  D) take the first step toward writing8. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.  A) Although bones calendars can stretch as long as twelve or thirteen months, most, such as the best-known bone calendar, are only two and a half months or less.  B) While one well-known early bone calendar covered a little over two months, later calendars covered longer periods to aid the user in predicting the length of recurring events.  C) Known bone calendars cover only short periods; but an extended series of short-term calendars could have allowed early hunter-gatherers to discover regularities in the timing of events over longer periods.  D) Using bone calendars, early hunter-gatherers could figure out the length of human pregnancy, how long a given food supply would last, and the timing of the next flooding of local streams.9. Paragraph 3 suggests that some of the interest in Marshack's lunar calendar hypothesis comes from  A) the discovery that the calendar markings can accurately predict modern-day lunar events  B) further evidence from anthropologists that early people possessed an arithmetic intellect  C) a thorough understanding of the hunter-gatherer lifestyle and its requirements  D) a desire to believe that our ancestors were able to think abstractly10. According to paragraph 3, critics of Marshack's lunar calendar hypothesis argue that early hunter-gatherers  A) did not need a calendar to keep track of the events and regularities that were relevant to their life  B) were probably good enough arithmeticians to count days without writing anything down  C) had a semi-nomadic way of life in which there were few predictable occurrences for a calendar to keep track of  D) did not contribute to the development of an arithmetic intellect11. According to paragraph 4, all of the following have been presented as criticisms of Marshack's interpretation of the marked bones EXCEPT:   A) The marks on the bones may not actually be grouped in any meaningful way.   B) The individual marks might have been used to represent events other than days.   C) The bone marks might have been made by tool-sharpening activities.   D) Marshack's interpretation of the bone markings requires more evidence.12. In paragraph 4, why does the author compare the marks on Marshack's bones to marks on stone pillars throughout the Nile valley?   A) To argue that keeping track of lunar cycles might have been relatively common   B) To weaken the claim that marks found on bones are early lunar calendars   C) To provide another example of decorations made on a hard surface with a sharp tool   D) To provide a typical example of how archaeologists interpret groups of ancient cut marks13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   His interpretation is consistent with the fact that the marks in some groups of cuts get increasingly larger, just as the moon seems to get larger as it moves through its cycle.   Where would the sentence best fit?14. Prose Summary   Cut marks found on a few Paleolithic bones are regarded by Alexander Marshack as early lunar calendars, an interpretation that remains controversial.   Answer Choices:   A) Marshack is not alone in believing that the written calendar can be traced back more than 20,000 years to the end of the last ice age.   B) Marshack claims calendars would allow prediction and discovery of events with a set time period and provide a beginning for the process of associating marks with objects, which led to written language.   C) Most scholars agree with Marshack that lunar calendars on bones constituted the beginning of the development of a distinctively arithmetic intellect in humans.   D) The longest bone calendar covers only two and a half months, but several such calendars could have been used to discover longer spans for commonly occurring events, such as human pregnancy.   E) Critics of Marshack question whether early people were capable of the kind of abstract thinking he assumes, or whether they even needed a calendar.   F) Marshack's view that the cuts in the bones represent the lunar phases is not supported by any evidence, and other research proved the bones were used only to sharpen knives.