1. The word "enduring" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) widespread  B) lasting  C) profitable  D) beloved2. According to paragraph 1, sweets changed in the nineteenth century in part as a result of  A) a change in children’s food preferences  B) increased demand for imported fruit  C) the greater availability of sugar  D) the growth of the middle and working classes3. It can be inferred from paragraph 1 that in the late 1830s  A) wealthy consumers stopped buying products from confectioners  B) people had more money to spend on sweets  C) exotic imported fruit became less expensive  D) confectioners offered new kinds of products to the public4. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.  A) Children in the nineteenth century had money of their own to spend, leading to their becoming important to the success of stores selling certain material goods.  B) Penny candies were the first material goods that children bought with their own money although later in the century the patronage of children was not enough to keep stores in business.  C) The earliest products that children bought were penny candies, and children were such important consumers of these sweets that candy shops could not survive without their patronage.  D) During the late nineteenth century, children spent so much money on penny candies that some candy stores sold these sweets to the exclusion of other goods.5. The word "masking" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) hiding  B) weakening  C) containing  D) combining6. The word "recommended" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) included  B) evaluated  C) provided information about  D) expressed support of7. Which of the following can be inferred from paragraph 4 about the "sugar-candy" advertised by Nicholas Bayard in 1730?  A) It was probably less hard than earlier sugared tablets were.  B) It was supposed to taste like medicine.  C) It probably contained some bitter-tasting ingredients.  D) It stopped being sold only in the mid-1840s.8. In paragraph 4, why does the author discuss the "sugar-candy" advertised by Nicholas Bayard?  A) To explain why hard penny candies were sometimes thought to have medicinal benefits  B) To explain why the marketplace responded positively to hard penny candies  C) To make the point that medicinal lozenges changed little between 1730 and the 1840s  D) To show that hard penny candies descended from sweetened medicines9. According to paragraph 5, which of the following was true of Oliver Chase’s 1847 machine for making medicinal drops?  A) It created individual drops from a mixture that passed through the machine.  B) It operated most efficiently in a cold environment.  C) It made medicinal drops using the same process used today to make peppermints.  D) It reduced the stickiness of candy "dough." 10. The phrase "aimed at creating" in the passage is closest in meaning to   A) proven to create   B) used to create   C) intended to create   D) sold to create11. According to paragraph 6, which of the following was true of hard candies made from refined sugar?   A) They were molded into distinctive shapes to distinguish them from medicinal lozenges.   B) They were made from a mixture that was boiled and then hardened as it cooled.   C) They were more difficult to mass-produce than medicinal lozenges and tablets were.   D) They contained flavorings that confectioners made themselves.12. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   Unsurprisingly, the market for such goods was very limited.   Where would the sentence best fit?13. Prose Summary   The consumption of sweets increased greatly in the United States during the nineteenth century.   Answer Choices:   A) Before the nineteenth century, sugar was used primarily as a preservative, and most of the sweets consumed in the United States were imported from other countries.   B) The rich were the main consumers of sweets until inexpensive hard candies became available and led to the rise of candy shops that focused on serving the middle class and working class.   C) Because there was no clear distinction between hard candies and medicines until the late nineteenth century, earlier candy shop owners often claimed that their sweets had beneficial health effects.   D) Hard candies were an outgrowth of a long tradition of adding flavorful syrups or sweet coatings to medicines in order to improve their taste.   E) Machinery and processes for making pills and medicinal lozenges were adapted for the purpose of mass-producing high-sugar flavorful hard candies intended purely for enjoyment.   F) Reformers attempted to limit people’s sugar consumption, but the great popularity of candy shops and technological advances in the mass production of inexpensive candy caused such efforts to fail.