
#article
Visiting Researchers for Two Classes

Dear Students,
During two of our scheduled class meetings this semester, I will be away for a conference and won’t be teaching the class. On these days, visiting researchers will lead the biology class in my class. I’ve decided to invite these researchers so that I don’t have to cancel the classes while I’m away. Also, these guest speakers, who are active in the field of biology, will be discussing their recently published research, and you’ll benefit by learning something new and different from the course material.
Sincerely,
Professor Jones

#record
man) Oh hey Amanda, did you see that e-mail from our professor?
(woman) Yeah, I just saw it. I’m not really happy about it.
(man) How come?
(woman) Well, I’d like it a lot better if the classes were rescheduled. Those classes could be moved to another day when Professor Jones could be there to teach. 
(man) But don’t you think that’d be inconvenient for students?
(woman) Not really, I’ve had other professors reschedule and it’s always been fine. I think as long as it’s arranged far enough in advance students could make it to the classes on different days. Then this wouldn’t be needed.
(man) Wouldn’t it be cool to find out what they’re working on though?
(woman) It could be, but the thing is, we already have a lot of material to cover in this course, when will all the regular material fit in if that’s not what we’re doing on those days? I don’t need that extra stuff.
(man) Yeah, though I don’t think we’ll be tested on that material.
(woman) I know, but it doesn’t matter. I’ve looked over the syllabus and there’s a lot of information to cover this semester and I think it’s all really important for us to understand as Biology students. But now, maybe we won’t have enough regular class time to cover it all in enough detail.
(man) Okay, I see what you’re saying.

#question
The woman expresses her opinion about the plan described in the professor’s e-mail. Briefly summarize the plan. Then state her opinion about the plan and explain the reasons she gives for holding that opinion.
