1. According to paragraph 1, what happened around the start of the Pleistocene epoch?  A) Glaciers retreated from North America and Europe.  B) Glaciation began in the Northern Hemisphere.  C) Ice margins reached their present location.  D) Glaciers moved southward into North America and Europe.2. In stating that the history of glaciation in Europe "corresponds approximately the that of North America," the author means that it  A) matches roughly that of North America  B) contrasts in part with that of North America  C) predicts generally that of North America  D) is based largely on that of North America3. According to paragraph 2, what does plant debris found between layers of glacial sediment indicate?  A) The climate was warmer during the entire epoch than previously thought.  B) Glaciers must have advanced in some areas and retreated in other areas at the same time.  C) Glaciers must have retreated at some points during the Pleistocene.  D) Plants were able to form and develop underneath the glaciers.4. The word "simultaneously" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) as expected  B) at the same time  C) in the same way  D) as frequently5. In paragraph 3, which of the following is NOT mentioned as a reason why dating glacial deposits can be difficult?  A) Glacial deposits are not very well organized.  B) Very old deposits cannot be dated with radiocarbon dating.  C) It is difficult to find sufficient quantities of pollen.  D) Advancing glaciers destroyed older deposits.6. According to paragraph 3, which of the following is true about the mini advances and retreats of the ice margin in the Great Lakes region during the late Wisconsin stage?  A) Their occurrence is still doubted by some geologists.  B) They are difficult to study because they occurred earlier than 70,000 years ago.  C) They do not clearly match the pattern of changes in ice sheets in other locations.  D) The retreats of the ice margin during the period were generally bigger than the advances.7. Paragraph 4 suggests which of the following about the shells of foraminifera?  A) Shells formed during cold intervals had higher concentrations of O18 than shells from warm intervals.  B) There were more shells produced during colder periods than during warmer periods.  C) It was harder for foraminifera to build shells from dissolved calcium carbonate during periods of glacial advance.  D) Foraminifera require equal amounts of O18 and O16 in order to form their shells.8. The word "trigger" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) control  B) speed up  C) start  D) influence9. Paragraph 5 suggests that modern scientists believe which of the following about Milutin Milankovitch's 1930s hypothesis?  A) It accurately describes patterns of glacial movement from the last 100,000 years but not the growth and shrinkage of ice sheets during the last million years.  B) It is not supported by evidence derived from the analysis of shells in sediment cores.  C) It explains the overall pattern of glaciers' advancing and retreating but not all of the details.  D) It needs to be replaced with a theory that explains variations in the amount of sunlight reaching Earth's surface.10. The word "uniformly" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) extremely  B) usually  C) dangerously  D) consistently11. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.  A) The isotope record reveals that cool glacial periods varied in length, with some lasting 10,000 years and others lasting as long as 15,000 years.  B) The isotope record tells us that up until about 10,000 to 15,000 years ago, the climate was still transitioning from cool periods to warm periods and back again.  C) Evidence shows that cooling trends associated with glacial advances lasted thousands of years, while warm interglacial periods came on quickly.  D) It is interesting to note that the transition from an interglacial to a glacial stage and back again could take from a few tens of years to thousands of year.12. According to paragraph 6, which of the following accurately describes temperatures during the Pleistocene?   A) During interglacial periods, temperatures may have been very similar to temperatures today.   B) During interglacial periods, the greatest increases in temperatures occurred in tropical regions.   C) During glacial periods, temperatures in regions about 40-degree latitude were only a few degrees cooler than today.   D) Temperatures during the Sangamon stage were generally lower than today's temperatures.13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   But although much of the evaporated lighter isotope eventually returns to the ocean, some of it is locked up in glaciers in very cold regions.   Where would the sentence best fit?14.Prose Summary   Pleistocene glaciation in North America and Europe lasted from 1.6 million years ago to 8,000 years ago.   Answer Choices:   A) Geological evidence indicates that most of North America experienced continuous glacial coverage during the Pleistocene, while only a few areas experienced warmer interglacial stages.   B) The study of glacial deposits and soils in different regions led to the identification of four stages of glacial advance and three interglacial periods during the Pleistocene.   C) Research into glaciation has been made difficult by the lack of agreement between North American and European geologists about which method of dating is reliable.   D) Only a few, brief, glacial advanced occurred at the beginning of the Pleistocene, but glacial stages had become much colder and last longer by the end of Pleistocene.   E) Shells of single-celled organisms that change in composition depending on glaciation provide a better picture of glacial advance and retreat than do deposits on land.   F) Some factors are still unknown, but Pleistocene glaciations probably occurred in cycles caused by Earth's variable orbit and its effects on the amount of sunlight Earth received.