1. The phrase "much deterioration" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) worsening condition  B) constant debate  C) much distance  D) required reconstruction2. According to paragraph 1, all of the following are true of the pyramid at Saqqara EXCEPT:  A) It was King Djorser’s burial place.  B) It was surrounded by other structures.  C) It was a symbol of Egyptian unity.  D) It was the first large-scale stone structure in the world.3. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.  A) In the Fourth Dynasty, Djoser’s successors began using new designs to build the pyramids at Giza, but these pyramids were not perfected until Khufu became king.  B) The kings after Djoser tried different methods for building huge pyramids until King Khufu constructed the ideal pyramid at Giza.  C) The kings who succeeded Djoser during the Old Kingdom period did not build large pyramids until King Khufu constructed the pyramids at Giza.  D) Kings of the Fourth Dynasty continued using Djoser’s techniques to build massive pyramids until King Khufu developed a new design for perfectly shaped pyramids.4. What can be inferred from paragraph 2 about the people involved in the construction of the pyramids?  A) They documented the process of construction.  B) They were skillful sculptors and planners.  C) They changed the design of pyramids very little after the time of Djoser.  D) They perfected their engineering skills during the first stage of pyramid building.5. The word "innumerable" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) heavy  B) huge  C) natural  D) countless6. The word "thoroughly" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) carefully  B) repeatedly  C) routinely  D) successfully7. The word "end" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) statement  B) purpose  C) location  D) improvement8. Paragraph 4 indicates possible answers to all of the following questions EXCEPT  A) What tools and methods were likely used to quarry stone for the pyramids?  B) Would managing the construction of the pyramids have required centralized administrative and political power?  C) How did building the pyramids change the monarch’s control over political power?  D) How many workers and years may it have taken to build the Great Pyramid of Giza?9. Paragraph 4 suggests that the pyramids were probably built during the flood seasons because  A) the large stones needed for the pyramids were easier to transport when the water was high  B) the areas where the pyramids were built were safer than the lowlands during floods  C) the weather was cooler during flood seasons and builders could work more easily  D) there were more agricultural workers available to build the pyramids during those times10. According to paragraph 4, why were high-ranking administrators sometimes given tombs near the king’s tomb?  A) To respect a rule against burying other people in the same structure as the king  B) To increase the number of mortuary complexes that were built by the king  C) To demonstrate the power that the king exercised over his administrators  D) To show thanks for these administrators’ contribution to the national economy11. The word "constrained" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) freed  B) forced  C) encouraged  D) allowed12. According to paragraph 5, which TWO of the following factors influenced the angles at which the pyramids were built? To receive credit, you must select TWO answers.  A) The engineering requirements for raising stone blocks to higher levels  B) The need to endure extreme weather conditions  C) The size of other architectural forms built during the Old Kingdom  D) Beliefs about how Egyptian kings went to the afterlife13.Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   In addition to the symbolic significance of this location, there are also practical reasons for the choice of this location.   Where would the sentence best fit?14.Prose Summary   Over the centuries, beginning with the building of the step pyramid at Saqqara and continuing through the building of the pyramids at Giza, ancient Egyptians perfected the art of pyramid construction.   Answer Choices:   A) The pyramid complex at Saqqara is smaller and in worse conditions than the pyramids at Giza, but it is considered by many to be more beautiful.   B) While not much is known about the construction of the pyramids, the religious rituals associated with them are well documented in ancient texts.   C) With little direct information about how the pyramids were built, researchers look for clues in the pyramids’ location and probable construction methods.   D) The construction of the pyramids required a lot of labor, which was possible by the coordinating force of a strong central government and powerful rulers.   E) Because the effort needed for building the pyramids was greater than what the Egyptian peasants alone could provide, foreign crafts people and laborers were also employed.   F) Though the angles of the pyramids were surely based on architectural and engineering principles, they may also duplicate the angle of the sun’s rays.