1. The word "promoted" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) relied on  B) practiced  C) considered  D) encouraged2. Which of the following is NOT mentioned in paragraph 1 as one of the advantages of beekeeping?  A) It can increase plant pollination by making up for low levels of wild pollinators.  B) It can be used to control agricultural pests inexpensively.  C) It can be combined easily with other ongoing domestic activities.  D) It makes available valuable food products that are economically profitable.3. According to paragraph 1, beekeeping offers which of the following social advantages?  A) It makes land ownership easier.  B) It allows new families to enter already established communities.  C) It provides an alternative to more physically demanding types of work.  D) It improves the condition of women by enabling them to earn their own money.4. Why does the author provide the information that "A. millifera is seriously affected by the mite pests Varroa destructor and Tropilaelaps clareae, whereas A. cerana is essentially unaffected." ?  A) To demonstrate that pesticides for mites are not always effective  B) To emphasize how biologically different the two species of bees are  C) To explain why box hives are less dangerous for beekeepers than frame hives  D) To offer a reason why A. cerana might be more cost-effective for certain farmers than A. mellifera5. The word "Conversely" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) In contrast  B) As a result  C) Fortunately  D) Typically6. All of the following are mentioned in paragraph 2 as advantages that A. cerana beekeeping has over A. mellifera beekeeping EXCEPT:  A) cerana beekeeping requires less money to set up.  B) cerana beekeeping is free from the use of dangerous pesticides.  C) cerana beekeeping provides greater profits over time.  D) cerana beekeeping uses less expensive containers for the bees.7. The word "vocation" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) change  B) occupation  C) routine  D) challenge8. According to paragraph 3, which of the following is true of the practice of supering, or splitting bee colonies?  A) mellifera colonies must be split more often because they are larger than A. cerana colonies are.  B) It is a difficult procedure that causes bees of both species to sting and leave the disturbed nest.  C) It can be more easily done with A. mellifera.  D) It is usually done once at the beginning of beekeeping but is not repeated afterward.9. The word "justification" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) definite knowledge  B) good reason  C) caution  D) hope10. Select TWO answer choices that, according to paragraph 4, were reasons why some people were concerned that A. mellifera might be more successful than A. cerana. To receive credit, you must select TWO answers.   A) mellifera lives longer.   B) mellifera produces larger populations.   C) mellifera searches for food over a greater area.   D) mellifera requires less food to support its population.11. Paragraph 4 suggests that which of the following would make A. cerana more productive?   A) Establishing more careful breeding practices for A. cerana   B) Expanding research studies in professional beekeeping   C) Introducing new bee species into its native range   D) Encouraging the cultivation of wild populations of A. mellifera12. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.However, the advantages of keeping bees are not limited to agricultural development.Where would the sentence best fit?