#article
Dental amalgam has been for decades and remains today the most commonly used material in dental repairs such as tooth fillings. However, it is a mercury alloy, meaning that it is a mixture of mercury and other metals. It is well documented that direct exposure to mercury has a toxic effect, but there are many experts who believe that mercury may be dangerous even in alloy form. For this and other reasons, mercury should be prohibited from use in dental repairs.

   Health Concerns
   First, mercury has long been known to have adverse effects on human health. Some experts consider it possible that the small amounts of mercury in the amalgam used to repair a tooth can, over long periods of time, enter a person's central nervous system, potentially causing neurological, psychological, and immunological problems.

   Pollution Problems
   Second, waterways in the United States and the wildlife in them are being harmed by mercury contamination. The escape of amalgam waste from dentists' offices is responsible for a large percentage of the mercury contamination in waterways in the United States. Amalgam waste is washed down the dentists' office drains and into sewer systems that empty into lakes, rivers, and other bodies of water. Ultimately, the mercury in this amalgam ends up at the bottom of lakes and rivers; there, bacteria transform it into methylmercury, a form of mercury that is especially harmful to wildlife.

   Alternatives Available
   Third, dental repairs can be made without exposing people and animals to the dangers of mercury. Alternative materials such as gold, porcelain, and resin are widely available. Many dentists are now recommending that those or other materials be used instead of amalgam.



#record
Now listen to part of a lecture on a topic you just read about.

(female professor) The reading greatly exaggerates the dangers of using dental amalgam. An amalgam is in some ways preferable to the alternative materials that the reading proposes using. 

First, the dangers to human health, research studies have shown that the very, very small amounts of mercury that a person might have absorb over years from dental amalgam are very unlikely to be harmful. The exposure level is just too low to cause trouble. The only people proven to have suffered bad health consequences as a result of dental amalgam are people who are allergic to mercury. Fortunately, allergic reactions are rare. Only fifty cases have been documented out of millions and millions of patients. So the vast majority of the population can safely have amalgam fillings without any concern about too much exposure to mercury. 

Second, the environmental hazard, you know, there's a device called a separator. A separator is a type of filter that fits inside a drain through which waste water passes. The separator collects solid material, including amalgam, as water passes through it, so that the material collected by the separator can later be disposed of safely. Using separators drastically reduces the amount of mercury released into the sewage system. Requiring all dentists to equip their offices with separators will almost completely prevent amalgam from contaminating bodies of water with mercury alloy. 

Third, amalgam has many advantages over possible replacement materials. It's less sensitive to moisture, which is important right? After all, the inside of the human mouth is constantly wet and dental repairs may with amalgam tend to last longer than others do. Finally alternative materials, especially gold, tend to more expensive per unit. By some estimates, dental costs for people in the United States would increase by twelve billion dollars a year if amalgam were eliminated as an option.

#question
Summarize the points made in the lecture, being sure to explain how they challenge the specific arguments presented in the reading passage.
