1. The word “lethal” in the passage is closest in meaning to
  A) deadly
  B) high
  C) repeated
  D) sudden

2. According to paragraph 1, what was one of the reasons why many of the hypotheses about the mass extinctions were considered unsatisfactory?
  A) They could not determine the precise timing of the extinctions.
  B) They exaggerated the suddenness of the extinctions.
  C) They did not explain why only certain types of habitat were affected.
  D) They were not supported by geological evidence.

3. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
  A) Iridium is a heavy metallic element that is over ten times more concentrated in metallic meteorites than in Earth’s crust.
  B) When analyzed, this clay layer was found to have more than ten times the normal concentration of metallic elements like iridium.
  C) This clay layer contained more than ten times Earth’s normal concentration of iridium, an element found more commonly in metallic meteorites.
  D) Analysis found that most of the iridium in Earth’s crust is concentrated in this clay layer.

4. According to paragraph 2, what did Luis and Walter Alvarez conclude in their 1980 article?
  A) Most of the extinctions were of organisms that resided in marine sediments.
  B) The extinctions were caused by toxic levels of iridium.
  C) Earth was hit by a giant asteroid about 10 kilometers in diameter.
  D) Meteorites contain more iridium than scientists previously thought.

5. The word “disrupted” in the passage is closest in meaning to
  A) moved up
  B) destroyed
  C) interfered with
  D) spread through

6. According to paragraph 3, all of the following environmental effects might have occurred after the impact of a giant asteroid EXCEPT
  A) extensive fires
  B) severe acid rain
  C) an immediate increase in global temperatures
  D) a gradual increase in the impact of greenhouse gases

7. It can be inferred from paragraph 3 that which of the following marine organisms were LEAST likely to suffer from the negative effects of the impact?
  A) Organisms that fed directly on plankton.
  B) Organisms that lived near the ocean’s surface.
  C) Organisms that were at the top of the food chain.
  D) Organisms that lived deep in the oceans.

8. The word “appeal” in the passage is closest in meaning to
  A) attraction
  B) surprise
  C) outcome
  D) characteristic

9. The word “vicinity” in the passage is closest in meaning to
  A) instant
  B) area
  C) heat
  D) remains

10. Why does the author point out that “Small, spherical, glassy grains are also present in the layer”?
   A) To provide an example of a prediction from the impact hypothesis that has been confirmed by observation
   B) To point out differences in the kinds of grains produced by the impact
   C) To contrast the effects of high pressures and rapid cooling on rocks in the vicinity of the impact
   D) To indicate that the iridium-rich layer contains different types of grains


11. According to paragraph 4, the presence of fractured grains of quartz is a sign that rocks were
   A) hit by pieces of extremely fast-moving dust and clay
   B) exposed to a huge amount of pressure
   C) exposed to extremely high temperatures
   D) formed through melting followed by rapid cooling

12. According to paragraph 5, which of the following is NOT true of the Chicxulub structure?
   A) It was circular in shape.
   B) It was buried under 180 meters of rock.
   C) It was located right at the K-T boundary.
   D) It was probably formed by the impact that caused the massive extinctions.

13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.

   Eventually, however, a theory emerged that has won wide acceptance.

   Where would the sentence best fit?

14. Prose summary

   Scientists have long sought to explain why an extraordinary number of organisms went extinct at the end of the Cretaceous period.

   Answer Choices:
   A) One theory is that high levels of iridium in the atmosphere may have caused widespread disease, loss of vegetation, and weakness that increased animals’ vulnerability to predation.
   B) A thin layer of iridium-rich clay found in marine sediments in several locations around the world suggested that an asteroid with a diameter of at least 10 kilometers had hit Earth.
   C) The lack of an obvious crater and the prevalence of iridium in marine sediments as opposed to terrestrial rocks suggest that the impact occurred in the deep ocean.
   D) Effects of such a collision would have included changes in global climate, fires, acid rain, and loss of plankton and other ocean life.
   E) Among the evidence found in support of the impact hypothesis was the presence of the iridium-rich clay worldwide, droplets of melted rock, and the discovery of a huge crater in the Yucatan Peninsula.
   F) The impact hypothesis is now favored over the iridium hypothesis because it better explains the suddenness of the extinctions and their occurrence on both land and sea.
