1. The word "resolved" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) settled  B) complicated  C) created  D) extended2. According to paragraph 1, why is eating a poisonous insect an "educational experience" for predators?  A) It makes the predator less likely to become ill the next time it eats a poisonous insect.  B) It enables the predator to recognize and avoid similar types of insects.  C) It enables the predator to subsequently avoid eating the particular part of the insect where poison is stored.  D) It allows predators to warn their relatives of the dangers of consuming poisonous insects.3. According to paragraph 1, the relatives of a poisonous insect that is eaten by a bird will  A) be more likely to be consumed by birds of the same species  B) have a better chance of survival  C) attempt to sacrifice themselves for the benefit of their own offspring  D) be unlikely to have offspring of their own4. The word "Fortunately" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) Normally  B) Luckily  C) Especially  D) Surprisingly5. According to paragraph 2, why are monarch butterflies colored black and orange?  A) To look like poisonous plants  B) To blend in with plant life found in their habitat  C) To advertise their transition from the caterpillar stage  D) To signal to potential attackers that they contain poisons6. What can be inferred from paragraph 2 about the toxic substances stored in the bodies of monarch butterflies?  A) They are sometimes toxic to humans as well as to birds  B) They are likely to kill inexperienced birds but not experienced birds  C) They are usually vomited by birds before they can cause death.  D) They usually have no effect on birds when eaten in small amounts.7. In paragraph 3, why does the author discuss an experiment in which researchers raised monarch caterpillars on two different species of milkweed?  A) To prove that monarchs are able to consume plants that are poisonous to other species  B) To support the claim that consuming poisonous milkweed is advantages to monarchs  C) To determine the amount of poison that is toxic to monarch butterflies  D) To argue that most birds can consume poisonous insects without dying8. According to paragraph 3, jays that consumed toxin-containing monarchs reacted in all of the following ways EXCEPT by  A) demonstrating symptoms of illness  B) refusing to eat other toxin monarchs  C) consuming only nontoxic monarchs in the future  D) fluffing out their feathers immediately after consuming9. The word "seldom" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) extremely  B) rarely  C) often  D) potentially10. The word "exclude" in the passage is closest in meaning to   A) compete with   B) interact with   C) keep out   D) carefully observe11. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.   A) A bird that has eaten a poisonous insect will learn to avoid relatives of the insect victim that move through or live in the bird's territory.   B) A bird that eats insects will not attack poisonous insects living within its own territory but will attack insects that wander in from other territories.   C) A territorial bird learns to avoid poisonous insects, making it more likely that the bird will have surviving relatives within its own territory.   D) Poisonous insects are unlikely to become the victims of birds and thus are able to wander widely from one bird's territory to another bird's territory.12. What can be inferred from paragraph 4 about protective systems based on deadly poisons?   A) They are less common than nondeadly systems in nature.   B) They are more effective than systems based on nondeadly poisons.   C) They are less common in insects than in other types of animals.   D) They are most likely to be found in nonterritorial species.13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   Certain ladybugs, for example, have a mechanism for producing poison.   Where would the sentence best fit?14. Prose summary   Many insects contain poisons that are not deadly to the birds that eat them.   Answer Choices:   A) While the poisons in toxic insects are not strong enough to kill the birds that eat them, they do result in survival advantages to future generations of those insects.   B) Some toxic insects have evolved protective systems that allow them to survive being swallowed by birds, thereby ensuring both their own survival and that of their relatives.   C) Since the genetic makeup of monarchs differs from other insects, like bees and wasps, the sacrifice of a monarch results in more of the victim's genes surviving in its offspring.   D) Some insects, such as the monarch butterfly, store poisons in their bodies to discourage predators, while other insects make their own poisons.   E) Research has shown that after a bad experience with toxic monarchs, a blue jay protects other members of its species by communicating a warning against eating them.   F) The territorial nature of birds means that poisonous insects can move freely through a bird's territory after the bird has learned to avoid them.