1. The word "rivals" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) critics  B) competitors  C) neighbors  D) superiors2. What can be inferred from paragraph 1 about Venice and Genoa during the Central Middle Ages?  A) They were more involved in commerce than they were in manufacturing.  B) They were dependent upon trade with Florence.  C) They benefited from being close to ocean trade routes.  D) They had strong economic ties to other European cities.3. According to paragraph 1, what was true of Florence by 1400 A.D.?  A) Its economy was still developing at a slower pace than the economies of Venice and Genoa.  B) It was less prosperous and powerful than most European cities.  C) Its economy emphasized manufacturing over trade.  D) It had become the most prosperous and powerful city in northern Italy.4. The word "decisive" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) determining  B) early  C) influential  D) official5. According to paragraph 2, all of the following are true of the textile industry during most of the Middle Ages EXCEPT:  A) Textiles were produced in small workshops.  B) Textile trading and manufacturing were separately controlled.  C) Textile products were transported to markets by master craftsmen.  D) Some textile workshops were joined in collective organizations.6. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.  A) The archive of the Datini family reveals the duties of Florentine merchant entrepreneurs, which included establishing and managing workshops.  B) During the thirteenth century, merchant entrepreneurs traveled throughout Europe, setting up and managing workshops in cities as far apart as Edinburgh and Constantinople.  C) Powerful merchant entrepreneurs such as the Datini family communicated with customers all over Europe who wanted to buy and manage workshops in Florence.  D) Thirteenth-century merchant entrepreneurs in Florence established offices throughout Europe in addition to purchasing workshops in Florence and hiring managers to operate them.7. The phrase "this role" in the passage refers to  A) commercial innovation  B) trade  C) new merchant entrepreneur  D) making money available and moving it around8. The word "mundane" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) inadequate  B) questionable  C) unnecessary  D) ordinary9. The phrase "barrier to" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) limitation to  B) alternative to  C) component of  D) development of10. According to paragraph 4, why was it important for Florentine bankers to organize the exchange of money?   A) To allow Florentine bankers to participate in trade as merchant entrepreneurs   B) To allow foreign merchants to use Florentine banks   C) To allow Florentine families to set up offices in other cities   D) To make it possible for people using different currencies to trade11. What is the author's purpose in listing the office locations of the "Peruzzi family" and the "Bardi family" ?   A) To suggest that Florentine banking was dominated by two families in the fourteenth century   B) To compare the wealth of Florentine bankers with the wealth of Florentine merchant entrepreneurs   C) To illustrate the influence of Florentine banking throughout Europe   D) To show the strong competition among Florentine banking families12. According to paragraph 5, which of the following was NOT true of the education system of medieval Florence?   A) It enrolled about 10,000 students.   B) It did not have a university.   C) It provided professional training for lawyers and bankers.   D) It provided all students with advanced training in Latin, math, and logic.13.Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   By the end of the Middle Ages, however, the manufacture and trading of textiles began to undergo fundamental changes.   Where would the sentence best fit?14.Prose summary   Florence's success in manufacturing and commerce placed it in a powerful position in the late Middle Ages.   Answer Choices:   A) Because of its ideal geographic location, Florence was one of the first Italian cities to prosper economically, leading to a large increase in population.   B) Florence modernized the textile industry by producing a new type of entrepreneur who was in charge of both the manufacture of cloth and its trade.   C) The bankers of Florence facilitated trade in significant ways by making currency exchange possible and providing numerous financial services to new entrepreneurs.   D) New accounting techniques such as double-entry bookkeeping were learned by Florentine bankers working in other European centers and imported to Florence.   E) Despite Italy's tradition of republican government, the successful merchant entrepreneurs of Florence made it difficult for other groups to participate in civic governance.   F) Florence had a developed education system that provided citizens with the skills necessary to succeed in commerce, as well as access to new technologies which increased organization and productivity.