1. The word "sparse" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) highly varied  B) natural  C) protected  D) thinly distributed2. The author mentions monkeys and hot air balloons in paragraph 1 in order to  A) emphasize how difficult it is to do research in tropical rain forests  B) compare the tools used by different researchers working in rain forests  C) explain why tree walks are still the preferred way of gaining access to flower samples for research  D) illustrate that most of the activity in a tropical rain forest happens in the canopy3. Select TWO answer choices that describe characteristics of epiphytes discussed in paragraph 1. To receive credit, you must select TWO answers.  A) Epiphytes live in the rain forest canopy.  B) Epiphytes are a source of food for monkeys.  C) Epiphytes flower and fruit seasonally.  D) Epiphytes obtain their food from mineral deposits on tree branches.4. In paragraph 2, why does the author discuss the fruiting habits of closely related trees in the genus Miconia in Trinidad?  A) To indicate that rain forests in Trinidad are the best environment for the growth of trees in the genus Miconia  B) To illustrate that flowering and fruiting activity happens year-round in tropical rain forests  C) To argue that the activity in forests in temperate latitudes is similar to that of Trinidad  D) To explain why some tropical rain forests may be inactive at certain times of the year5. The phrase "contract into" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) be reduced to  B) establish  C) look like  D) be considered6. The word "promoted" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) encouraged  B) explained  C) speeded up  D) prevented7. What can be inferred from paragraph 3 about northern coniferous forests?  A) They experienced stability during the ice ages, leading to established species today.  B) Their evolutionary history differs significantly from that of tropical rain forests.  C) The level of species dominance is similar to that of tropical rain forests.  D) Their species experienced the phenomenon of genetic isolation.8. According to paragraph 3, pathogens and herbivores affect plant-species diversity in rain forests by  A) specializing their feeding on only a few species of trees  B) dominating and suppressing organisms that feed on young trees  C) feeding mainly on mature trees  D) limiting the number of new trees growing near mature trees of the same species9. According to paragraph 3, why are seedlings in a rain forest unlikely to become established near a mature tree of the same species?  A) Pathogens and herbivores tend to disperse seeds some distance from the mature trees that the seeds came from.  B) Seedlings near mature trees cannot compete well for resources.  C) Seedlings are attacked by organisms living close to mature trees.  D) Compared to mature trees, seedlings tend to be located closer to pathogens and herbivores.10. According to paragraph 4, which of the following statements about species diversity in rain forests is NOT true?   A) Herbivores can rely on a variety of species as food sources.   B) A diversity of tree species results in a corresponding diversity of plant-eating animals.   C) Specialization of the pollination mechanisms of species results in a relatively low number of pollinators.   D) A large number of species can live within a relatively small area.11. In saying that the soil surface is "bare" the author means that   A) it is not covered by leaves   B) it is not soft enough for nutrients to seep through   C) it is not protected from rainfall   D) it does not have enough nutrients for the vegetation growing in it12. According to paragraph 5, where are most of the mineral nutrients in a rain forest?   A) In the soil below the tree roots   B) In the surface soil   C) In the leaf litter   D) In the plants13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   One reason for this is that little rainfall reaches the forest floor directly so minerals are not washed away.   Where would the sentence best fit?14. Prose summary   Activity in tropical rain forests happens primarily in the canopy.   Answer choices:   A) Tropical rain forests are difficult to access due to large numbers of plants and animals on the forest floor.   B) Tropical rain forests contain many diverse species and little domination of a few species over others.   C) During the ice ages tropical rain forests did not vary in size, which led to an increase in species richness.   D) Great plant diversity in tropical rain forests supports a similar diversity in the animal species that inhabit them.   E) All closely related rainforest species flower at the same time and then rest while non-related species flower.   F) The quick decomposition of leaves releases a large amount of nutrients that are accessible to plant roots and easily recovered.