1. According to paragraph 1, what question about gliding species are researchers trying to answer?  A) Why it took millions of years for gliding animals to evolve in the tropical forests of Southeast Asia  B) Why gliding animals, though rare in most tropical forests, have evolved in so many different families in Southeast Asia  C) Why gliding animals evolved in many tropical forests in Southeast Asia before they evolved in any of the tropical forests elsewhere in the world  D) Why gliding animals evolved only in tropical rain forests2. According to paragraph 1, it is generally thought that the ability to glide is useful to forest-dwelling species because gliding  A) allows them to adapt to a wide variety of forest conditions  B) eliminates the need to travel long distances in search of food  C) provides a rapid, energy-efficient way of descending from the top of a tree to the ground  D) enables them to move through the forest without being exposed to predators on the ground3. The word "scattered" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) hard to find  B) seasonally available  C) widely separated  D) highly varied4. All of the following are mentioned in paragraph 2 in support of the tall-trees hypothesis EXCEPT:  A) Tall trees make longer glides possible.  B) Tall trees make building up speed in a dive possible.  C) Tall trees make gliding from the middle of tree trunk possible.  D) Tall-tree forests have lower wind speeds.5. Select TWO answer choices that point to flaws in the tall-trees hypothesis, according to paragraph 2. To receive credit, you must select TWO answers.  A) Many gliding animals are unable to ascend to the tops of tall trees.  B) Gliding animals are not evenly distributed throughout the forests of the Southeast Asian region.  C) In Southeast Asia, many gliding animals are found in places where trees tend to be relatively short.  D) Many gliding animals begin their glides from positions midway up the trunks of trees.6. The word "speculates" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) concludes from evidence  B) recognizes  C) puts forward as a possibility  D) claims7. Paragraph 3 implies which of the following ideas about forests in which there are abundant woody vines connecting tree crowns?  A) The tree canopy is more even than it is in other forests.  B) In such forests, animals can move between trees by traveling on vines.  C) Such forests generally contain a wider diversity of animals than other forests do.  D) There are likely to be fewer predators on the ground in such forests than in other forests.8. The word "tremendous" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) seasonal  B) endless  C) unexpected  D) enormous9. Paragraph 3 supports the idea that one problem with the broken-forest hypothesis is that  A) ecologists have found gliding animals in areas of Southeast Asia where trees are connected by vines and not found them in Amazonian forests where trees are not connected by vines  B) in Southeast Asia, the forests with the fewest woody vines connecting the tops of trees turn out to have the most gliding animals  C) according to ecologists in different regions of the world, gliding animals are as abundant and varies in some forests of Africa and the New World as they are in Southeast Asian forests  D) gliding in no easier in broken forests with an uneven canopy structure than it is in forests where the trees are all about the same height10. According to paragraph 4, what special difficulty do leaf-eating animals face in a dipterocarp forest?   A) Dipterocarp trees are less leafy than other canopy trees     B) There is no efficient method of getting from one tree to another.   C) Most trees are very tall with leaves that are difficult to reach.   D) There is a large distance between trees that have edible leaves.11. How does paragraph 5 relate to paragraph 4?   A) Paragraph 5 shows that the food-desert theory introduced in paragraph 4 can account for only part of what needs to be explained.   B) Paragraph 5 explains why the author calls the theory set out in paragraph 4 the food-desert theory.   C) Paragraph 5 completes the account of the food-desert theory begun in paragraph 4.   D) Paragraph 5 outlines an alternative to the food-desert theory described in paragraph 4.12. According to paragraph 5, what is responsible for the relative scarcity of insects and other prey in dipterocarp forests?   A) The inability of insects and other prey to eat the toxic seeds, flowers, and fruits of dipterocarp trees   B) The efficiency with which lizards and geckos hunt their prey   C) The abundance of carnivorous animals in dipterocarp forests   D) Dipterocarps' irregular flowering and fruiting cycles13.Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   For each group, a dipterocarp forest is like a desert in that food resources are few and far apart.   Where does the sentence best fit?14. Prose Summary   Various theories have been proposed to explain the unique abundance and diversity of gliding animals in the rain forests of Southeast Asia.   Answer Choices:   A) One theory is that so many gliding species evolved in Southeast Asia because the forests are exceptionally tall, but there is evidence that calls that theory into question.   B) The fact that gliding animals are most abundant in the short-stature forests of China, Vietnam, and Thailand shows that gliding did not evolve as an adaptation to an environment of tall trees.   C) Ecologists have shown that the abundance of gliding animals in different regions of the world corresponds to variations in tree height, canopy structure, and abundance of vines.   D) The hypothesis that gliding evolved to compensate for a scarcity of vines linking tree canopies overlooks problematic evidence from both Southeast Asian and Amazonian forests.   E) In forests that are dominated by tall trees, jumping from tree to tree or descending to the ground may be a more efficient way of traveling through the forest than gliding.   F) Dipterocarp trees create an environment in which many species must travel widely to find food, and gliding may have evolved as a rapid and efficient way of moving between tree crowns.