1. The word “classic” in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) interesting  B) frequent  C) typical  D) useful2. Which of the following can be inferred from paragraph 1 about how the different Mesopotamian city-states related to each other?  A) They encouraged their elites to cooperate with each other.  B) They developed distinct languages and cultures.  C) They disagreed on maintaining their independent status symbols.  D) The engaged in wars to control territory and resources.3. According to paragraph 1, all of the following statements are true about ancient Mesopotamian city-states EXCEPT:  A) They had capital cities that were often surrounded by walls.  B) Some ruled a number of smaller population centers.  C) They shared an army to protect their common interests.  D) They controlled land areas that were relatively small.4. According to paragraph 2, often many people lived in Mesopotamian urban centers in order to  A) enjoy the benefits of having neighbors  B) have greater security for their lives and things they owned  C) have more land for agricultural protection  D) have greater access to food and other resources5. According to paragraph 2, what mainly determined how big a given Mesopotamian urban center became?  A) How large the farming communities under its control were  B) How successful it was at obtaining resources from other city-states  C) How many possessions individuals living in the center had acquired  D) How early in the development of Mesopotamian civilization it was established6. The word “remnants” in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) remains  B) reconstructions  C) images  D) studies7. The word “vigorous” in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) early  B) complex  C) regular  D) lively8. According to paragraph 3, what was one effect of the development of craft production in Mesopotamian urban centers?  A) It increased social exchanges between elites and other city dwellers.  B) It created a greater demand for agricultural production.  C) It encouraged the development of commerce and markets.  D) It significantly reduced competition between neighboring city-states.9. Why does the author state “the Nile offered innumerable harbors for shipping and trading”?  A) To help explain why defensive walls were absent from Egyptian cities other than Memphis  B) To explain why a single state was able to dominate the area from the first cataract to the Mediterranean  C) To provide evidence that Egyptian trade specialists worked in both small towns and regional capitals  D) To identify a reason why it was possible for Egyptians to live in dispersed, low-density settlements10. The word “ringed” in the passage is closest in meaning to   A) distinguished   B) protected   C) surrounded   D) separated11. According to paragraph 4, Egyptian settlements differed from Mesopotamian settlements in that Egyptian settlements   A) did not have to compete with each other for water   B) did not have to be located near a river   C) employed a high number of trade specialists   D) had to defend themselves against attacks from foreigners12. According to paragraph 5, the Egyptian geopolitical system was characterized by   A) easy access to other contemporary societies   B) settlements that were varies in size   C) urban centers that were far from trade routes   D) cities and towns that were spaced closely together13.Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   A combination of factors accounts for the settlement pattern that developed in ancient Egypt.   Where would the sentence best fit?14.Prose Summary   
   Patterns of settlement in ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia were considerably different.   
   Answer Choices:   A) Mesopotamian settlements were concentrated in heavily protected urban centers, each dominating its own relatively small area and competing for resources with the others.   B) Mesopotamian cities had large populations of farmers and craft specialists and were busy centers of commercial exchange between city and countryside as well as between neighboring city-states.   C) The predominant occupation in Mesopotamian city-states was craft production, while the predominant occupations in Egyptian village-states were shipping and trading.   D) Mesopotamian city-states used military force to control the urban centers and farming villages, while in ancient Egypt the dwellers of small towns remained largely independent from the regional   capitals.   E) The population of ancient Egypt was relatively evenly distributed along the Nile in low-density villages and towns that had access to water and ports.   F) While walls were built in ancient Egypt to protect against flooding from the Nile, walls were built in Mesopotamia to mark the boundaries between urban centers.