1. According to paragraph 1, what is the phi phenomenon?  A) The appearance of movement that occurs when one light is turned off while another lights up nearby  B) The tendency to see two lights placed close together as coming from a single light source  C) The fact that the human eye sees a light source for a split second after it has disappeared  D) The impression that there are several light sources when there is actually only one2. According to paragraph 1, which of the following statements does NOT correctly describe persistence of vision?  A) It was originally noticed by the ancient Greeks.  B) It refers to an image of an object seen by the human eye for one-tenth of a second after the object has disappeared.  C) It is a scientific principle that was already widely accepted before Peter Roget demonstrated its validity.  D) It provided the basis for a number of European toys, including the Thaumatrope and the Praxinoscope.3. The word "pronouncement" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) statement  B) advice  C) theory  D) experiment4. In paragraph 2, why does the author mention the bet that Edward Muybridge tried to settle about whether "the four feet of a galloping horse ever simultaneously left the ground" ?  A) To introduce and explain a fundamental principle of motion-picture photography  B) To demonstrate that still photographs produced a visual effect that surpassed that of hand-drawn pictures  C) To emphasize that photographers had to be willing to take risks in order to portray their subjects  D) To suggest the difficulty of trying to capture animal movement in motion-picture photography5. The word "counterpart" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) addition  B) invention  C) component  D) equivalent6. The word "flexible" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) connected  B) smooth  C) bendable  D) delicate7. According to paragraph 2, how did Muybridge contribute to the development of motion-picture technology?  A) He invented the first motion-picture camera.  B) He demonstrated the technique of taking a series of photographs and viewing them in rapid succession.  C) He asked Edison and Dickson to create a motion-picture camera that was both practical and economical.  D) He combined hand drawings and still photographs to create movie-like effects.8. Paragraph 2 suggests that Thomas Edison's early efforts to develop a motion-picture camera failed because he could not figure out how to  A) display the camera's pictures to an audience  B) move the film quickly through the camera  C) line the edge of the film with holes that were small enough  D) prevent the film form tearing9. According to paragraph 3, what were Kinetoscope parlors?  A) Places where people could pay a penny to view a short film by looking into a machine  B) Places where people could gather in crowds to watch short films projected onto large screens  C) Special studios where Edison produced films that would be shown by his newly invented machine  D) Places where Edison sold his phonographs, peep-show machines, and other popular inventions10. Which of the following can be inferred from paragraph 3 about the Vitascope?   A) It was widely used in Europe before being adopted in the United States.   B) It never made as much money as the equivalent European projection device.   C) It was a larger version of the original Kinetoscope.   D) It was designed to show motion pictures to large groups of people.11. The word "rekindled" in the passage is closest in meaning to   A) reported   B) renewed   C) reinforced   D) rewarded12. In paragraph 4, the author describes the film The Cabbage Fairy in order to   A) argue for the importance of continuous action to keep audiences interested   B) suggest that early films were more popular than live performances were   C) provide an example of one of the first films to tell a story   D) emphasize how relatively short most early movies were13.Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.      Although she directed hundreds of short films and produced hundreds more over the course of her career, she has largely been forgotten.      Where would the sentence best fit?14. Prose Summary   The phi phenomenon and persistence of vision are two characteristics of the human perceptual system that make motion pictures and television possible.   Answer Choices:   A) When the persistence of vision became widely known, it inspired the development of toys that made hand-drawn pictures appear to move.   B) The motion-picture camera developed from the experiments in sequential photography that were originally done by Edward Muybridge.   C) The invention of the motion-picture camera led to the discovery that a horse's feet do not leave the ground while the horse is galloping.   D) Later developments in film included a focus on large-screen projection rather than individual viewing machines and narrative fiolms rather than simple action sequences.   E) The primary competitors in early motion-picture technology were Edison's Kinetoscope and the European-designed and manufactured large-screen projection devices.   F) French filmmakers Alice Guy-Blache and Georges Melies started the first two major movie studios in America and in France, respectively.