#article
Cancel Information Sessions

At the beginning of each year, during new-student orientation, the university holds information sessions to provide students with general information about resources available at the university. I think that these sessions should be canceled. This is because a lot of the information presented during these sessions is not helpful at the beginning of the year. Students tend to forget what they have heard and so are not able to benefit from the information. Additionally, the sessions are unnecessary because all the information presented is available on the university Web site. The students can access the information when they need it.
Sincerely,
Paul Clark.

#record
Now listen to two students discussing the letter.

(man) What do you think of his idea?
(woman) I don’t know. I’m not sure I agree.
(man) Really? Why is that?
(woman) Well, we don’t need to know all that stuff right away, but, I mean, some of the stuff was really useful.
(man) Yeah, I suppose.
(woman) Like, for instance, I learned about the Student Book Fair where a lot of students sell their used books, ones they don’t need anymore.
(man) Right, the Book Fair
(woman) Yeah, I would have just bought all my books at the bookstore, but instead, I waited and went to the Book Fair to buy used books straight from the students and that saved me a lot of money.
(man) Me, too, but, what about what he said about the Web site? If that’s true, then,
(woman) Well, sure, but it just seems unrealistic to me that students would ever do that. I mean, think about it. When was the last time you ever used the Web site like that?
(man) Um, I guess never.
(woman) Exactly! Same for me and most students probably don’t and wouldn’t bother imagine if the university did what he’s suggesting. Who’s got the time?
(man) Yeah, I know with all the other stuff I’ve got going on
(woman) Right, classes, campus events and everything, I just don’t see students bothering to go to the Web site using it like that and so they just end up missing out on a lot of important stuff they should know.

#question
The woman expresses her opinion about the proposal described in the letter. Briefly summarize the proposal. Then state her opinion about the proposal and explain the reasons she gives for holding that opinion.
