Listen to a conversation between two students

(woman) Hi, Joey, how's it going?
(man) Well, I just had a little bad luck, actually.
(woman) What happened?
(man) Well, you know I'm in a band, right?
(woman) Yeah, in fact your group is playing in that big concert next weekend, right?
(man) Right, and you know that big rainstorm we had over the weekend?
(woman) Yeah
(man) Well, I was at home and there was a big leak in the roof of my apartment.
(woman) Uh oh
(man) Yeah, so water poured in all over my electric keyboard.
(woman) Oh no! That's the instrument you play in a band, right?
(man) Yeah, and it's completely destroyed. I took it to a repair shop and they said there's no way to fix it.
(woman) Wow! So sorry and you have that concert coming up. What are you gonna do?
(man) Well, I could just buy an old used keyboard.
(woman) That would sound OK?
(man) Well, it definitely wouldn't sound as good as the one that got ruined, but it wouldn't cost much money and at least I'd have a keyboard for the concert.
(woman) OK
(man) The thing is, everyone on campus is gonna be at the concert and for most of the students this will be the first time that they've ever heard our band.
(woman) So you want to sound as good as possible.
(man) Right
(woman) Um
(man) Or, I do have another option.
(woman) OK
(man) I've been saving money for a trip I'm planning to go on with some friends this summer. We're planning to take a few weeks to drive across the country, you know, stop and see stuff along the way?
(woman) That sounds great.
(man) Yeah, but if I just tell my friends I can't go on the trip, I can use the money I've been saving and buy a nice new keyboard right now.
(woman) But you'll miss a great trip.
(man) Yeah, and my friends are counting on me to share expenses, so if I don't go, they may not be able to go either.
(woman) Hmm
(man) So I don't know.

#question
Briefly summarize the problem the speakers are discussing. Then state which of the two solutions from the conversation you would recommend. Explain the reasons for your recommendation.

