1. According to paragraph 1, people are more likely to quit their jobs in which TWO of the following situations? To receive credit, you must select TWO answers.A) They are living in good economic times.B) They are moving from urban areas to non-urban areas.C) They are living in urban areas.D) They do not like their employers.2. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.A) Workers in urban areas change jobs less frequently than do those in nonmetropolitan areas because the costs associated with a change of residence are higher in urban areas.B) Industries located in urban areas experience higher rates of job turnover than do those in nonmetropolitan areas because workers can often change employers without having to change where they live.C) Industries located in urban areas tend to have lower rates of job turnover than do those in nonmetropolitan areas because they are more likely to invest in residences for workers.D) Workers in urban industries are likely to change jobs more frequently than are those in nonmetropolitan industries because it is less costly for workers to change residences in urban than in nonmetropolitan areas.3. Why does the author note that "Some people adapt more quickly to new surroundings than others do" ?A) To argue that some people experience little psychic cost when they change jobsB) To support the claim that the psychic cost of changing jobs is likely to differ widely between individualsC) To illustrate why some psychic costs are unobservable to researchersD) To argue that psychic costs alone cannot fully explain changes in mobility rates4. According to paragraph 2, what do studies reveal about the tendency for workers to change jobs?A) It relates more to economic costs than to psychic costs.B) It decreases with age.C) It varies greatly.D) It increases over time.5. According to paragraph 3, what is one possible explanation for why American workers change jobs more frequently than workers elsewhere do?A) The relatively small percentage of American workers who live in urban areas.B) The tendency of American employers to provide less training for workers.C) The recent decrease in mobility costs in the United States.D) The lower average population density in the United States.6. According to paragraph 4, what may contribute to high mobility costs in Germany, the United Kingdom, and Japan?A) Rent control does not apply to a renter’s first lease on a property.B) Governments have significantly reduced housing subsidies.C) There is little control on the rent increases that can be charged after the initial agreement.D) When a renter leaves a housing unit that has been subsidized, the unit will not be subsidized for the next renter.7. What is the author’s purpose in using the parenthetical phrase "it is argued" ?A) To indicate that the view that workers are reluctant to leave subsidized housing is widely acceptedB) To suggest that the view that workers are reluctant to leave subsidized housing has not been proved trueC) To emphasize that the view that workers are reluctant to leave subsidized housing was based on careful reasoningD) To oppose the view that workers are reluctant to leave subsidized housing8. By indicating that the United States, Australia, and Canada are "sparsely" populated, the author means that the population of these countriesA) is widely scatteredB) has increased rapidlyC) is very largeD) has remained stable over the years9. Paragraph 5 supports which of the following ideas about mobility costs for American workers compared with mobility costs for workers in most European countries?A) Mobility costs are higher for American workers because they have shorter job tenures.B) American workers get more help from employers in covering the costs of moving to a new job.C) The psychic costs of resettling internally to take a job are lower for American workers.D) The economic costs of emigrating to take a job are higher for American workers.10. The word "traumatic" in the passage is closest in meaning toA) importantB) unreasonableC) expensiveD) upsetting11. According to paragraph 6, high job mobility rates may benefit an economy byA) making it more likely that the economic environment will change significantlyB) encouraging employers to increase the sizes of their workforcesC) making it more likely that jobs will be filled by people who are suited to themD) encouraging workers to improve their skills12. The word "incentive" in the passage is closest in meaning toA) authorityB) obligationC) abilityD) motivation13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.According to this view, greater mobility could result in a less skilled workforce.Where does the sentence best fit?14. Prose SummaryAccording to economic theory, workers are more likely to change jobs when the associated costs are low.Answer Choices:A) Since job changes by a minority of workers can radically alter overall job mobility rates, job mobility rates tell us little about the mobility costs facing the average worker.B) Outside of the United States, subsidized housing and controls on rent increases explain why there is less job mobility in urban areas than in nonmetropolitan areas.C) Residential location and individual psychic factors could account for some differences in job mobility among workers.D) Possibly due to housing and other differences, mobility costs may be lower in the United States than in most other developed nations, which could help account for differences in job mobility.E) Economists argue strongly for job mobility despite the social and economic costs associated with it.F) High job mobility arguably has both benefits, in terms of individual well-being and economic flexibility, and economic costs.