1. According to paragraph 1, all of the following are mentioned by Caro and Hauser as requirements for an animal behavior to qualify as teaching EXCEPT:  A) The teacher should change the way it acts in the presence of individuals with less experience.  B) The teacher must not gain anything in the short term from its behavior.  C) The behavior should not result in any advantage for the teacher in the long run.  D) The animal being taught must acquire skills faster than it would without the teaching.2. The word "intervention" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) approval  B) involvement  C) observation  D) interest3. Paragraph 2 suggests which of the following about scientists' views before Thornton and McAuliffe's study?  A) Scientists did not have evidence related to what young animals really learned from adults.  B) Scientists knew of only three animal species that engaged in behavior that qualified as teaching.  C) Scientists strongly believed that there is no gap between what adults teach and what young animals learn.  D) Scientists believed meerkats were better at teaching their young how to capture prey than domestic cats were.4. The word "stimulate" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) allow  B) remind  C) request  D) motivate5. The word "intact" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) for a shorter time  B) without help  C) without interruption  D) in complete form6. The word "competence" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) ability  B) maturity  C) individuality  D) practice7. According to paragraph 3, all of the following are true of meerkats EXCEPT:  A) They live in certain territories in southern Africa.  B) Most young in a group share the same mother and father.  C) All adult group members are involved in raising the young.  D) They use a specific call to warn their young of the presence of scorpions.8. According to paragraph 3, which of the following is true of the behavior of meerkat pups that are a month old or older?  A) The pups eat most prey except for scorpions.  B) The pups join the adult meerkats when the adults go foraging.  C) Younger pups compete with older pups for the prey that helpers bring them.  D) Younger pups participate more actively in finding prey than older pups do.9. According to paragraph 3, meerkat helpers are likely to display which of the following behaviors with younger pups but not with older pups?  A) Remaining with the pups for longer than a few seconds after delivering prey.  B) Nudging the pups to turn their attention to prey items.  C) Returning prey items that the pups allowed to escape.  D) Spending foraging effort to obtain pretty for pups.10. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.  A) In addition to meeting Caro and Hauser's criteria for teaching, the behavior demonstrated by meerkat helpers is time-consuming and requires great effort.  B) Experimental and observational data show that the behavior of meerkat helpers meets the first two requirements for teaching outlined by Caro and Hauser.  C) Thornton and McAuliffe observed that the amount of time and effort required by helpers depends upon the age of meerkats and environmental conditions.  D) Observations and experiments conducted upon meerkat helpers show that only two of Caro and Hauser's criteria are actually necessary for teaching to occur.11. The word "it" in the passage refers to  A) the teaching  B) the experiment  C) the observational data  D) the helpers' behavior12. In paragraph 4, why does the author discuss an additional experiment conducted by Thornton and McAuliffe?  A) To show that meerkats require extensive practice before they are able to forage on their own  B) To give an example of an experiment that suggested a new requirement for teaching  C) To argue that meerkats can be taught to forage in the research lab as well as in the wild  D) To provide evidence that meerkat behavior satisfies Caro and Hauser's third requirement of teaching13.Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   Eventually, even scorpions are presented to the pups without interference from the helpers.   Where would the sentence best fit?14. Prose Summary   To qualify as teaching, animal behavior must meet three requirements identified by Caro and Hauser.   Answer Choices:   A) Meerkat pups receive more training as a result of being raised by all members of the group, and that is why they learn to capture their own prey sooner than animals raised by the parents alone.   B) Some animals like domestic cats and cheetahs might be teaching their young to deal with prey, but there has been no investigation of whether learning from the adults actually takes place.   C) Researchers have found that teaching is most common among animals that must subdue difficult or dangerous prey, such as scorpions.   D) Experiments show that adult meerkats teach young pups to make a variety of different calls that serve to alert other meerkats to the presence of prey.   E) Meerkat helpers present pups with different types of prey as their skills increase, and they help ensure that prey does not escape before the pup can catch it.   F) Researchers have shown that meerkat teaching behavior occurs in the presence of inexperienced individuals, has immediate costs, and results in clear learning on the part of pupils.