1. What is the author’s purpose in discussing quartz and limestone?  A) To explain why quartz is more common than limestone  B) To point out that most rocks are made up of a combination of minerals  C) To illustrate that some minerals are more affected by chemical weathering than others are  D) To show that chemical weathering can occur only in the calcium-carbonate form of a mineral2. The word “withstand” in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) continue  B) avoid  C) experience  D) resist3. According to paragraph 2, why does granite often have a pitted appearance?  A) Granite does not contain enough feldspar to prevent chemical weathering.  B) The quartz grains in granite decay when they chemically react with feldspar.  C) The feldspar grains weather away from the granite surface.  D) The clay in the granite has been blown or washed away, leaving behind the quartz and feldspar.4. According to paragraph 3, which of the following statements is true about the effect of feldspar hydrolysis on a rock?  A) It produces solutions of clay and other minerals.  B) It strengthens the minerals involved in the chemical alteration.  C) It moistens the rock but does not change the rock’s mineral compounds.  D) It expands the rock without causing the rock to break apart.5. The word “exposed” in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) typical  B) uncovered  C) buried  D) discovered6. Paragraph 4 implies that rocks found in tropical areas  A) do not weather as much as rocks found in colder climates  B) contain only small amounts of iron and aluminum  C) are commonly reddish brown  D) rarely react with the oxygen in the air7. The word “vigorous” in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) dangerous  B) active  C) obvious  D) common8. The word “prominent” in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) extensive  B) present  C) complex  D) recent9. According to paragraph 5, all of the following statements are true of carbonation EXCEPT:  A) It has less of an effect on rocks in dry areas than it does on rocks in wet areas.  B) It is responsible for the formation of caves and underground corridors.  C) It rarely affects harder rocks such as limestone and dolomite.  D) It involves a reaction between carbonic acid and carbonate minerals.10. According to paragraph 6, what does the author believe about the role of plant roots in weathering?  A) Rocks that contain plant roots weather more slowly than rocks that do not.  B) Weathering helps plants to grow, but plant roots probably do not play a role in weathering.  C) Plant roots contribute to biological weathering but not to chemical weathering.  D) Plant roots do contribute to weathering, although not as much as some have suggested.11. Which of the following is mentioned in paragraph 6 as the reasons the process of weathering is important for plants?  A) It removes the minerals that may interfere with plant growth.  B) It reduces the number of large rocks that may block the path of growing roots.  C) It contributes to the creation of the soil needed for plant growth.  D) It removes the small irregularities in rocks that make it difficult for roots for form.12. According to paragraph 7, living organisms contribute to weathering in all of the following ways EXCEOT:  A) by mixing soil  B) by drawing minerals from rocks  C) by causing small pieces of rock to fall off  D) by moistening rocks until they expand13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   The result of this removal of minerals is a very gradual eating away of rock surfaces.   Where would the sentence best fit?14. Prose Summary   Chemical and biological weathering are responsible for the chemical alternation and physical disintegration of rocks.   Answer Choices:   A) Of the three types of chemical weathering, carbonation causes the greatest amount of chemical alteration in rocks, while hydrolysis causes the least.   B) All rocks are subject to chemical weathering, but the rate at which this weathering occurs depends on the mineral composition of the rock.   C) Oxidation normally results in the creation of new mineral in a rock that are softer and weather than the original minerals.   D) The availability of oxygen, carbon dioxide, and water has a significant impact on the type of chemical weathering that a rock is most likely to experience.   E) Lichens are an especially effective weathering agent because they contribute to both the chemical and biological weathering of rocks.   F) Plant growth and the actions of living organisms both contribute to the biological weathering of rocks.