#article
Film Club to Sell Snacks at Movie Screenings

The university film club currently shows movies on a screen in the student center once a week for all interested students. The club has just announced that beginning next Saturday, it will also sell snacks such as chips and candy outside the room where movies are shown. “Students will enjoy the movie screenings more if they can have a snack while they are watching the movie,” states Paul Santos, president of the club. He also believes selling snacks will be a good way for the film club to raise money for future activities.


#record

Now listen to two students discussing the announcement

(man) Hey, Ella, you usually go to these screenings, right? Did you see that announcement in the paper?
(woman) Yeah, but, I don’t really like the idea, though.
(man) Really? I thought it sounded like a pretty good idea.
(woman) Well, the thing is, I don’t think it's really going to make it better for students, well, maybe for the ones who are actually eating. But for everyone else, it's going to be annoying, because if anybody's making noise, anywhere in that room everyone definitely hears it.
(man) Right, it's a pretty small room. It's not like a big movie theater.
(woman) Exactly! So imagine people unwrapping food or making crunching noises, I think it’ll be really distracting for others.
(man) Yeah, well, that's a good point.
(woman) Yeah, and I don’t think it’ll even be worth it financially.
(man) Really?
(woman) Yeah, because like I said, it's a small room and usually there aren’t that many students there. So I don’t see how they could sell very much.
(man) True, but even it's a little, wouldn’t it be a good idea?
(woman) Well, the thing is, it's going to be a lot of work for the students who have to get the stuff and sit there and try to sell it. I don’t think it’ll be worth the effort just for the small amount they’d make.
(man) OK, I see. Yeah, you’re probably right.

#question
The woman expresses her opinion about the announcement in the newspaper. Briefly summarize the announcement. Then state her opinion about the announcement and explain her reasons for holding that opinion.

