1. What is the main purpose of the lecture?
  A) To demonstrate the difficulties of communicating across species
  B) To discuss characteristics that all forms of animal communication have in common
  C) To present evidence that some animals listen to the communication of other species
  D) To cast doubt on a long-held theory about animal communication


2. Why does the professor mention bird watching?
  A) To point out a characteristic of bird communication that is not found in mammals
  B) To support a hypothesis about communication between different species of birds
  C) To point out the link between a common activity and scientific research
  D) To use a common activity to introduce the concept of eavesdropping

3. According to the professor, how was the experiment with the red squirrels different from previous studies on alarm calls?
  A) It focused on interactions between birds and mammals.
  B) It involved live observations of jays rather than recordings.
  C) It was the first time that jays demonstrated their ability to understand squirrel vocalizations.
  D) It showed that red squirrels and jays can use similar communication strategies.

4. What behaviors in the red squirrels were used to measure anti-predator behavior? [choose two answers]
  A) Increased vocalizations
  B) Pauses in chewing
  C) Rapid head and body movements
  D) Defensive postures

5. What was the main hypothesis of the food gathering experiment with gray squirrels?
  A) Gray squirrels would communicate to other squirrels where nuts were hidden.
  B) Gray squirrels would avoid areas frequented by jays.
  C) Gray squirrels would collect less food in the presence of jays.
  D) Gray squirrels would hide more food than usual when they heard hays nearby.

6. What does the professor imply when she says this: 
  A) She doubts that jays actually steal enough food to impact the behavior of gray squirrels.
  B) She questions whether gray squirrels can distinguish jays' songs from other birds' songs.
  C) She believes that some animal species may be confused by the information they obtain by eavesdropping.
  D) She thinks that eavesdropping by one animal species could influence how and when members of another animal species communicate
