1. What is the lecture mainly about?
  A) The effect two European painters had on a generation of women artists
  B) The training and careers of two women artists in the seventeenth century
  C) The role of women in training artists during the seventeenth century
  D) The types of paints created by seventeenth-century women artists

2. What does the professor imply about seventeenth century paintings showing women as artists?
  A) The paintings were a reflection of the changes in society
  B) Nearly all the paintings were made by women
  C) The paintings portray women with members of their families
  D) The paintings illustrate the popularity of self-portraits in the seventeenth century

3. According to the professor, why might Judith Leyster's parents have selected a particular artist to teach their daughter?
  A) The artist had painted a portrait of Judith.
  B) They liked the artist's painting style.
  C) They could not afford an apprenticeship with any other artist.
  D) The artist had a daughter who was being trained as a painter.

4. What does the professor imply about Judith Leyster's training as an artist?
  A) It enabled her later to travel throughout Europe as a painting instructor.
  B) It was similar to that of other women artists in the seventeenth century.
  C) It was extensive enough to qualify her for membership in an artists' guild.
  D) It did not give her an opportunity to open her own workshop.

5. According to the professor, what made Mary Beale different from most other woman painters of her time?
  A) She mainly painted portraits of famous male artists.
  B) She taught in an art academy.
  C) She became a professional painter.
  D) She shared her portrait studio with another woman painter.

6. Why does the professor say this: 
  A) To encourage the student to consider a different explanation
  B) To explain why his opinion differs from the student's
  C) To provide an illustration of the student's point
  D) To emphasize the possibility that the information is not accurate
