1. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.  A) In the sixteenth century, the European economy moved toward a system of free-market pricing, new ways of production, and investments.  B) Before the sixteenth century, European makers of handicrafts enjoyed stability, autonomy, and relative prosperity.  C) By the sixteenth century, the rise of capitalism began to weaken the autonomy and relative prosperity of European artisans.  D) European artisans operated small, autonomous businesses before capitalism emerged in the sixteenth century.2. The word "Besides" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) In addition to  B) More important than  C) Different from  D) Together with3. According to paragraph 2, how did technological advances contribute to the economic decline of artisans?  A) Artisans had no place to store or use the new machines.  B) Goods produced by the new technology were cheaper than those produced by artisans.  C) The fixed costs of remaining in business became very high.  D) Artisans did not know how to use the new machines.4. The word "preoccupation" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) necessity  B) concern  C) struggle  D) uncertainty5. In paragraph 3, why does the author provide the information about an Antwerp silk weaver's costs in 1583?  A) To describe some typical costs in the silk-weaving industry  B) To support the statement that artisans' main expense was materials, not equipment  C) To argue against the view that artisans did not have to borrow money to buy equipment  D) To show that materials were cheap and plentiful for most artisans6. What can be inferred from paragraph 3 about local materials?  A) They were of higher quality than imported materials.  B) They were usually more plentiful than imported materials.  C) They remained available even after merchants began to control the industries.  D) They tended to be more affordable than materials supplied by merchants.7. According to paragraph 3, which of the following was sometimes an effect on artisans of the loss of local sources of their primary materials?  A) They tend to sell their products to merchants.  B) They needed to take loans in order to buy the materials from merchants.  C) They could no longer afford to be independent producers.  D) They imported the materials from distant sources.8. The phrase "coupled with" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) caused by  B) compared with  C) affected by  D) combined with9. According to paragraph 4, all of the following caused economic difficulties for artisans EXCEPT  A) decreasing availability of credit  B) decreased demand for manufactured goods  C) increased taxes  D) problems caused by wars10. The word "autonomy" in the passage is closest in meaning to   A) independence   B) influence   C) ability to make a living   D) ability to adapt11. Paragraph 5 supports which of the following statements about artisans during the sixteenth century?   A) They had difficulty transporting their goods to the best markets.   B) They were at a disadvantage because the concentration of supplies and exports was in the hands of big-city merchants.   C) They received high wages as employees of big-city merchants.   D) They were able to obtain raw materials from local merchants.12. All of the following are identified in paragraph 6 as concerns that urban artisans had about the growth of industry in the countryside EXCEPT   A) a decrease in the supply of raw materials   B) a cheaper cost of living in the countryside   C) a more manageable level of competition   D) less complex production processes in the countryside13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   This was possible because when transportation costs were low, the price of raw materials was general also low.   Where would the sentence best fit?14. Prose Summary   European artisans experienced a decline during the sixteenth century as result of a number of developments.   Answer Choices:   A) Advances in technology in some industries increased the cost of the equipment, buildings, and facilities that artisans needed for producing and selling their goods.   B) Iron production in the sixteenth century depended on new inventions such as blast furnaces, tilt hammers, wire-drawing machines, and stamping, rolling, and slitting mills.   C) As the industries came under the control of merchants, artisans lost access to cheap raw materials, and they had to borrow money to buy the materials they needed from merchant suppliers.   D) The rising prices of food and other necessities often left artisans without enough money to pay their taxes and other business expenses.   E) Artisans' ability to earn profits was restricted by their dependence on creditors, to whom they were forced to sell their goods, and by competition from rural areas.   F) In the new industrial system from which skilled artisans were progressively excluded, the quality of manufactured items gradually declined.