1. According to paragraph 1, why do some organisms have a resting stage during their life cycle?  A) To recover from injuries suffered during harsh conditions  B) To devote all their energy to a period of growth and reproduction  C) To wait for local conditions to become favorable for important life events  D) To prepare to move to a different environment if conditions become harsh2. Why does the author mention “seeds of the arctic lupine”?  A) To argue that members of the pea family are extremely resistant to cold temperatures  B) To provide information about what ancient lemmings ate during their long resting periods  C) To provide an example of an organism with a resting stage that has many different levels of suppression of physiological activities  D) To support the claim that some resting stages last an extremely long time3. According to paragraph 2, why do many seeds require a period of stratification?  A) To slowly build up a tolerance for lower and lower temperatures  B) To guarantee that the seeds grow after and not before unfavorable weather  C) To make sure that the seeds can deal with unpredictable conditions  D) To give the seeds enough time to germinate before winter begins4. The word “severity” in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) length  B) harshness  C) unexpectedness  D) completeness5. According to paragraph 4, all of the following statements are true about the young offspring of the red kangaroo EXCEPT:  A) After birth, a newborn crawls in the mother’s pouch where it grows and develops.  B) After a young kangaroo leaves its mother’s pouch, it still needs its mother’s milk.  C) A mother usually gives birth to three baby kangaroos at the same time.  D) A baby kangaroo spends 235 days in the mother’s pouch after its birth.6. Paragraph 4 supports all of the following statements about the red kangaroo of central Australia EXCEPT:  A) A female kangaroo mates again shortly after her newborn enters her pouch.  B) During diapause, a young kangaroo stays in the female’s pouch and growth of a second fertilized egg inside the uterus is delayed.  C) A female kangaroo can freeze the development of her young at each stage of their development.  D) The adaptation of diapause enables female kangaroos to ensure the survival of their young during periods of environmental stress.7. What is the main purpose of paragraph 4 in the passage?  A) To give the details of an adaptation mentioned in paragraph 3  B) To describe an adaptation different form the one explained in paragraph 3  C) To introduce an adaptation that is described in detail in paragraph 5  D) To discuss an adaptation that is not as successful as the one discussed in paragraph 58. The word “congregate” in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) begin   B) gather  C) hurry  D) expect9. The word “Consequently” in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) Eventually  B) In addition  C) As a result  D) However10. The word “comprise” in the passage is closest in meaning to   A) consist of   B) bring about   C) are similar to   D) take the place of11. According to paragraph 5, how do amphibians such as spadefoot toads survive the severe heat conditions in the North American deserts?   A) They dig down into the ground and go into a resisting resting state.   B) They remain in the ponds that develop after it has rained.   C) They lose their outer layer of skin.   D) Their eggs lie dormant until the desert air becomes cooler and more moist.12. According to paragraph 5, which of the following occurs during the life cycle of the spadefoot toad?   A) The female’s eggs hatch under the surface of the desert.   B) The adults mate during the dry period.   C) The newborn grows into an adult before unfavorable conditions return.   D) The newborn enters a resting stage before it becomes an adult.13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   Such adaptations to predictable conditions can also be made by animals, such as by hibernating during the coldest months.   Where would the sentence best fit?14. Prose Summary   Some organisms adapt to periodic harsh conditions by building a resistant stage, or diapause, into their life cycle.   Answer Choices:   A) The diapause stage evolved very early and is most common in species that first appeared more than 10,000 years ago.   B) Some seeds may germinate in three days even if they have been exposed to very low temperatures for a long time.   C) Unpredictable conditions are more problematic for organisms than are fairly predictable changes such as seasons.   D) Some marsupials can care for three newborns in their pouch at the same time, allowing the young to leave the pouch only when conditions are favorable for their growth.   E) The female red kangaroo adapts to unfavorable condition by delaying the development of her fertilized egg until an embryo would be able to move into the pouch.   F) Some amphibians adapt to desert life by combining accelerated development with resting stages deep underground.