1. According to paragraph 1, all of the following are true of atolls EXCEPT:  A) Most atolls occur in the Indo-Pacific area.  B) Atolls occur only in very deep waters.  C) Atolls are more common than other types of reefs.  D) Atolls occur far from a landmass.2. According to paragraph 1, fringing reefs and barrier reefs can be identified by  A) their similarities to atolls  B) their organization into groups of separable parts  C) their distance from the nearest landmass  D) whether or not they enclose a lagoon3. The phrase “was heightened” in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) developed  B) varied  C) continued  D) increased.4. The word “prevail” in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) dominate  B) combine  C) spread  D) compete5. Which of the following can be inferred from paragraph 2 as the reason that the origin of atolls has generated more interest than has the origin of other types of reefs?  A) Most reefs have a predictable shape, but atolls do not.  B) Atolls appear to form more rapidly than other kinds of reefs.  C) The animals that form coral reefs cannot live in water below 70 meters, but atolls only form in very deep water.  D) Atolls have more diverse origins and histories than other types of reefs.6. According to paragraph 2, Darwin’s subsidence theory provided an answer to each of the following questions EXCEPT:  A) How does a lagoon develop?  B) Why do volcanic islands subside?  C) How does a fringing reef become a barrier reef?  D) What happens to coral growth when a volcanic island subsides slowly?7. What can be inferred from paragraph 2 about the development of atolls according to Darwin’s theory?  A) All atolls being as fringing reefs.  B) An atoll will not develop if an island subsides too slowly.  C) Most atolls will eventually become barrier reefs.  D) The formation of a lagoon accelerates the overall development of an atoll.8. The word “substantially” in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) often  B) largely  C) probably  D) undoubtedly9. Which of the following is mentioned in paragraph 3 as the reason many scientists doubted Darwin’s theory of how atolls form?  A) After Darwin’s five-year voyage, different kinds of atolls than those he observed were discovered.  B) Scientists discovered guyots, or flat-topped mountains, below the ocean’s surface.  C) Surface features of atolls do not show any signs of a volcanic base.  D) Drilling through layers of atolls reef did not product the results Darwin predicted.10. What can be inferred from paragraphs 2 and 3 about the volcanic rock found by the geologists in the Marshall Islands?   A) It extends from the surface to 1,283 meters deep.   B) It was the first guyot ever discovered by researchers.   C) It formed after the limestone layers of the Eniwetok atoll.   D) It was once an island existing above the ocean surface.11. The word “initiate” in the passage is closest in meaning to   A) begin   B) encourage   C) establish   D) maintain12. In paragraph 4, why does the author discuss the reefs around the Indonesian Islands, the Philippines, New Guinea, Fiji, and the Caribbean Islands?   A) To argue that these islands have suitable environmental conditions for subsidence   B) To support the claim that the subsidence theory cannot explain the formation of all barrier and fringing reefs   C) To indicate how different barrier and fringing reefs could be from atolls   D) To identify reefs that grow around nonvolcanic islands13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   Had subsidence occurred more slowly, the reefs would have eventually become atolls.   Where would the sentence best fit?14. Prose Summary   Atolls have the most distinctive features of all coral reef types.   Answer Choices:   A) Because of its many marine animal colonies, the Indo-Pacific area contains the world’s largest number of atolls, barrier reefs, and fringing reefs.   B) Darwin argued that atolls are formed when volcanic islands surrounded by fringing reefs begin to slowly sink, forming first a barrier reef and finally an atoll.   C) In the years after Darwin’s voyage, researchers discovered that Darwin was incorrect in believing that all fringing reefs and barrier reefs will eventually become atolls.   D) Darwin’s theory was confirmed by the discovery of volcanic rock underneath the limestone layers of an atoll in the Marshall Islands.   E) The discovery of guyots suggested to researchers that atolls would never form in nonvolcanic islands where fringing and barrier reefs are common.   F) The fringing reefs and barrier reefs that grow in the waters of continental margines and around nonvolcanic islands will never become atolls.