
L3---Listen to part of a lecture in a Biology class.

In the animal kingdom camouflage is a common strategy to avoid predation. There are many examples. The most famous might be the chameleon, a lizard that can change its skin color to match its surroundings. But there are also insects that look like leaves or flowers, frogs that look like rocks. You could probably think of a dozen more examples. 

First of all, let me introduce a technical term that is often used for camouflage, and that‘s crypsis. When we examine crypsis in the animal kingdom, it may appear that there are a thousand different patterns animals use to hide from predators. However, recent research involving cephalopods is teaching us that there is actually less there than meets the eye. Squid, octopuses and cuddle fish are cephalopods and they are uniquely fitted for crypsis research because individual animals don‘t have a fixed coloration that actually can very quickly change the appearance of their skin to match almost any habitat. Cephalopods can produce up to 50 different colors, patterns, and textures. But what the research is showing is that all these patterns employed by cephalopods are variations on just 3 basic types of crypsis. 

The first is uniform, or stipple. The word stipple is used in visual art. It means making small dots to create the impression of a solid color. Anyway, uniform or stipple body patterns are used by cephalopods to match their skin color to fairly uniform backgrounds like a sandy sea bottom. A sandy sea bottom has one basic color with little variation, so an octopus would only need to change its skin color to one basic color to match the environment. 

When a cephalopod needs to blend into a non-uniform, a more varied background, like gravel, which is made up of small rocks of varying sizes and colors, a cephalopod shows a marbled body pattern. Marbled body patterns consist of alternating irregularly shaped dark and light patches in the skin that roughly match the size of the dark and light objects in the immediate area. 

And finally, cephalopods also use what‘s called disruptive coloration. Disruptive body patterns are irregular patches of different shapes and colors that serve to distract an observer‘s attention and obscure the outline or shape of the animal. In other words, a disruptive pattern makes it difficult to see the shape and size of the animal. Disruptive patterns can also assume some level of general resemblance to the background. That is, they often contain small regions with marbled patterns or even uniformity. Cephalopods will adopt this crypsis strategy when the background is irregular and contains relatively large and varied patches of color and texture. 

Now you may be asking yourself why studying cephalopods crypsis is important. Well, while evolution produces a wide variety of body colorations and patterns in the animal kingdom, the basic pattern types we‘ve observed in cephalopods are used throughout the animal kingdom and ecological habitats. And that goes not just for animals that can change their cryptic pattern, but also for animals that have just one cryptic pattern they cannot change. In other words, these same basic strategies are used by the chameleons and frogs and insects we talked about. And by larger animals as well. For example, the tiger‘s pattern of black stripes on a lighter background is a form of disruptive coloration.
