C1---Listen to a conversation between a student and her academic advisor.

Academic Advisor: What‘s on your mind, Sarah?

Female Student: Well, I‘ve been taking a couple of Biology class this semester, and I really like it, and well, I have decided I‘d like to change my major field of study and get a degree in biology instead of math.

Academic Advisor: Oh. Umm, ok, but you only have two more years here before you‘re scheduled to graduate. And you know that probably isn‘t enough time to take all the courses you‘d need, so if you change your major you may end up graduating late.

Female Student: Well, but, you know the Biology department summer program, the one just for undergraduates?

Academic Advisor: Sure, but the application deadline has already passed.

Female Student: Oh yes, I know. Well, what I wanted to ask is, well, do you know of any similar programs elsewhere where I could take courses and have the credits transferred here?

Academic Advisor: Okay, errr¡­ I¡­ I see now. Well, a few of our students have attended the summer program at the York Institute of Technology on the other side of the city. Their summer program in Biology is a good one. They offer a variety of areas to focus on like cell biology, marine biology, even biotechnology. It‘ll all be on their website.

Female Student: Wow, sounds good!

Academic Advisor: You could take two courses there this summer which would apply toward your degree here.

Female Student: Oh, but I would need three to graduate on time.

Academic Advisor: Well, maybe you could do the York summer program and an independent study project with one of your Biology professors here.

Female Student: Okay.

Academic Advisor: But, many professors here have already left for the summer so you might have difficulty finding someone to supervise one this summer. Ah¡­maybe you could set one up for next summer?

Female Student: Yeah, that would work.  I‘ll do that. Do you know when the application deadline is for York?

Academic Advisor: I believe it‘s a week from now.

Female Student: Ah, guess I‘ll have to act fast. Oh, but one thing. When I got my grades back last semester, the grade for my mathematical modeling class was wrong. It was lower than what I actually earned. My professor submitted the paperwork to get it corrected, but she said it could take a few weeks before the right grade shows up on my official record. What if York institute wants to see my grades when I apply?

Academic Advisor: Hmm. Well, if it‘s not corrected in time, ask your professor to write a letter explaining the situation and include it in your application. That should be acceptable.
