

L2---Listen to part of a lecture in an Astronomy class.

Teacher: Most people‘s idea of a constellation and a professional astronomer‘s idea of a constellation are not quite the same. Okay, so, let me ask, what is a constellation? Kathy?

Female Student: A group of stars that form¡­ some kind of pattern.

Teacher: Yes, a recognizable pattern formed by bright stars. That‘s what non-astronomers call a constellation. Constellations often have names derived from ancient legends and myths. How about an example?

Female Student: Okay, uh, Orion. 

Teacher: Good. That‘s a permanent constellation. Let‘s take a look at Orion. The name refers to a hunter in Greek mythology. Orion is easily visible in the night sky from November through February when it‘s winter in the northern hemisphere and summer in the southern hemisphere. This relatively simple configuration is just a handful of stars. It‘s a great example of the lay public‘s notion of a constellation. 

And modern astronomer‘s conception of a constellation grew out of these constellation figures. What happened was, for millennia, people from around the world noticed these star patterns and made up stories about them, gave them names. And then as astronomy developed as a science, especially after the invention of the telescope, astronomers started discovering lots of new stars, and when they named a new star, to help communicate its location to other astronomers, they‘d name it based on the nearest constellation. And so for astronomers, the star became part of that constellation. 

But a lot of newly discovered stars were located between [stress] two or more constellations. So, how do you name these if you don‘t know where one constellation ends and the next begins? So, in the 1920s, the International Astronomical Union or IAU came up with an official list of 88 constellations. The IAU first had to agree on a list of constellations that combined traditional constellations with constellations that had been established more recently. Then they defined precise boundaries for each constellation. They were drawn along vertical and horizontal lines similar to the coordinate system we use to describe locations here on earth. The boundaries organized the entire sky as seen from the earth into 88 continuous regions, and it‘s for these regions that astronomers use the term constellations. Some of these constellations are very large, others relatively small, and not all of them correspond with our traditional constellations. Let me give you an example. What constellations do people in the United States probably think of first when asked to name a constellation? 

Female Student: The Big Dipper?

Teacher: Right, The big dipper. Also known as the plough, or the wagon elsewhere, is a grouping of seven bright stars visible throughout the year in the Northern Hemisphere. But, what most people don‘t know is that it‘s actually not called a constellation by astronomers. It‘s called an Asterism. You can clearly see the boundaries of the constellation. And there‘s the big dipper. Its seven stars are connected by lines that form its pole or long handle. They‘re the brightest stars in Ursa Major. 

Now, look at the two stars in the bowl that are farthest away from the handle. If you extend the line between them, away from bear‘s back, you‘ll end up at the North Star, which is very valuable to navigators. You can‘t see it here, it‘s beyond Ursa Major‘s boundaries. It‘s in the constellation Ursa Minor, or smaller bear. Yes, Kathy?

Female Student: So how many stars are there in total in Ursa Major?

Teacher: Well, how many stars are in a typical galaxy? 

Female Student: I‘d say billions. 

Teacher: Okay, we‘ve identified 50 or so galaxies within the Ursa Major boundary. You can do the math. An Asterism is a traditional star pattern that was not classified as a constellation by the IAU. For these, the term Asterism is used. Well, I personally think the Big Dipper deserves more respect. I mean, there‘s evidence of this grouping was recognized by Paleolithic hunters over 13,000 years ago, and it‘s recognized today by people around the world. If only I‘d been a member of the IAU back in the 1920s. That said, the Big Dipper is a good example of an Asterism. It‘s a distinctive group of stars, but it‘s part of a constellation, the constellation called Ursa Major. The name Ursa major comes from Latin and means the larger bear.

