
C2---Listen to a conversation between a student and a professor.

Professor: Hi Jeff, I haven‘t seen you for a while. How are you?

Male Student: I‘m fine, thanks, and pretty busy. I‘m working part time as a journalist.

Professor: That‘s great, have you written any articles lately?

Male Student: Yeah. Because of my knowledge of coastal processes, last month I wrote an article for the school newspaper about coastal erosion and the beach replenishment project at Bringby beach. They‘re spending a lot of money to rebuild the beach there. I‘m going to try to get some pictures of the work they‘re doing, although I sometimes wonder if their plan is such a good idea.

Male Professor: Yeah, talk about fighting a losing battle. You know, maybe you could help mirror the project. One of my research areas is erosion of rock formations and well, I‘m writing an article about the rate of erosion of the creek at Bringby Beach. Maybe you could help me by letting me use a few of your photographs, you know, for my article. I have some but wouldn‘t mind having a few more. I‘d mention in the article that you took the pictures. 

Male Student: Sure, that‘d be great. But I have a favor to ask you. You‘re still the faculty advisor for the rock climbing club, right? I know it‘s a little late, but I was wondering if I could sign up for the trip to the Rocky Mountains next month. I‘m doing a story for a local travel magazine about the rock formations there. It‘s a great opportunity for me. You know, to get my work out there. And going with the club will allow me to do some on-site investigation. And, it‘ll be cheaper than going on my own because the magazine won‘t pay for the trip. You know, I‘m a certified guide, I know my way around the cliffs there so I could even help.

Professor: Sure, you can sign up. You are still a member of the club, aren‘t you? Erm, you didn‘t go on our last trip to Vermont.

Male Student: I think I‘m still a member.

Professor: You could pay your dues, no? The membership fee isn‘t covered by your student activities fee anymore. Students have to pay at the beginning of the semester.

Male Student: Really? Isn‘t there anything you can do?

Professor: Well, the rules are clearly stated in the student handbook. I really can‘t make an exception, but oh wait! I have an idea. Maybe you could go on the trip and work for the club in some capacity. And as an employee, well [laughter], we have a guide, but he cancelled last week and since you‘re a guide, it‘s too late for you to get the group rate for the hotel and airfare, but you‘d be paid. If that‘s OK, we‘d be happy to have you.

Male Student: Okay, yeah. That works for me.

