
L1---Listen to part of a lecture in a theater history class

One interesting aspect of studying Shakespeare and the Elizabethan theater is what we don‘t know about the theater where most of Shakespeare‘s plays were performed, the Globe Theater. We do know the Globe was first built in 1599, and then it had to be rebuilt after a fire in 1613, and it was finally torn down sometime after 1643. But beyond that history, scholars want to know about the physical aspects of the building because that could help us understand the plays even better. 

So what did the Globe look like? Well, picture a building shaped kind of like a stadium, where nowadays we might go see an athletic event or big outdoor concert. It was like a stadium, but smaller, about 30 meters across. Inside this open air theater was a stage at one end, and a big central yard with standing room for spectators. And surrounding that central yard was seating for those who could pay a little more, seating like you‘d have in a stadium today. And we know that the stage was built with a roof over it, so if it was raining the actors would stay dry, but the spectators standing in the yard would just get wet. 

Now as for the exact shape of the Globe Theater, for a long time, people just assumed it was round. It was, after all, called the Globe. But what is that really based on? One bit of evidence that it was more or less round and made of wood comes from the prologue of the play Henry the 5th where we hear the theater described as this wooden O, comparing the theater to the letter O makes it sound as though the building must be round. 

But what other evidence do we have? Well, the biggest piece of evidence is a map, drawn by an artist by Wenceslaus Hollar. On Hollar‘s map you can see all of the theaters in London, and this map depicts the Globe Theater as being perfectly round. People take this map pretty seriously because it‘s considered the most reliable map of London from that time. I‘ll explain why in a minute. 

On the other hand, there are reasons to think the Globe wasn‘t actually round. For one, we know that it was made of wood and it‘s almost impossible to build a perfectly circular building out of wood. Heavy pieces of wood aren‘t easily bent to form a circle. So some scholars think the Globe had straight sides, eight of them. See, we have another map of London that shows the Globe with eight distinct sides. This map gives a panoramic view of London and was printed in 1616. We also have a book, published much later, a book on English theater history that includes a drawing of the Globe showing it as an eight-sided building. 

But what do we make of this evidence? Well, the book that shows the globe as having eight sides was written in 1790, about 150 years after the Globe was gone. So, how much can we trust it? I don‘t think the author had been there personally to see the Globe. 

And the map that showed it as an eight-sided building contradicts Hollar‘s map. Even though other details from Hollar‘s map are considered accurate, scholars, what they do is, they compare maps to landmarks and buildings that still exist today. You can do that in a city like London, where you still have buildings that were [stress] around in the early 1600s. And for most details Hollar‘s map has proved to be much more accurate than the others.
