Listen to a conversation between a student and an employee in the office of campus transportation and parking.

(man) Good morning, how can I help you? Wait, let me guess. You're a prospective student and you're here for the visitation day. Let me give you a visitor's parking pass.
(woman) Uh, I'm already a student.
(man) Oh, sorry, with this visitation day today, we've had prospective students in here all morning long.
(woman) What I wanted to ask, I received a parking ticket earlier this week. I was parked along the curb outside the Jeffrey's Hall when I got it, underneath the street light.
(man) Um, that curb seems to be a problem spot for a lot of students. We've given quite a few tickets for cars parked there recently. Didn't you see the "No Parking" sign?
(woman) Yeah, but people have been parking along that curb lately, I figured it was OK to park there. I mean, if there's no spaces nearby.
(man) No, you always have to park in a designated parking lot.
(woman) Yeah, but the thing is there just aren't enough parking spaces in the designated lot behind Jeffrey's Hall. That lot's really crowded.
(man) I know. It's been that way ever since that art exhibit opened in the building next to Jeffrey's Hall. Unfortunately, people who visit the exhibit are using that parking lot, too. But, you've got to understand that for traffic flow reasons, we can't have people parking on either side of campus roads.
(woman) But I have class in Jeffrey's Hall three days a week. Huh, I can't even get there on time now. I just keep driving around and around the lot looking for a spot to open up.
(man) You could get an earlier start and go to class on foot.
(woman) That'd be quite a hike for me. This campus is so spread out.
(man) Or you could use our shuttle bus, which stops at all the residence halls. That's what it's for. It goes right to Jeffrey's Hall and it's free.
(woman) Do I need tickets or?
(man) No, no, just show your school ID.
(woman) But I paid for this parking pass.
(man) Right, right, hum, well, let's see. If you can get by on a shuttle, it's just about the middle of spring term now. We could refund you half of what you paid for your pass if you return it.
(woman) Oh, a refund, huh, I have never taken a shuttle before. How often does it run?
(man) On weekdays, every twenty minutes between seven in the morning and ten at night.
(woman) And I could get back half and I wouldn't have to park, wait, would I still be able to keep my car in the lot at my residence hall? I need it cause a lot of times I drive home on Friday after my last class and come back on Sunday.
(man) No, unfortunately, a university parking pass is just, it's just one pass for everything, dorm parking, gym parking, the whole campus. So, once you've turned it in, 
(woman) Oh, that won't work then. I'll have to keep my parking pass.
(man) I don't know how long the exhibit is supposed to run. Maybe you'll get lucky and it'll close soon.
(woman) I guess it can't last forever. I suppose I could take the shuttle until then.
