1. What is the lecture mainly about?
  A) The impact of cost on the cotton industry
  B) The advances of agriculture due to industrialization
  C) A new way of measuring the value of certain products
  D) A substitute for coal and iron that was introduced in the 1800s

2. What does the professor imply about the fuels used for manufacturing iron?
  A) Iron could be produced faster using wood as fuel than using coal.
  B) The type of coal used had little effect on the quality of iron.
  C) Coal was not always considered the best fuel for iron production.
  D) Coal was imported to Britain because its coal mines were depleted.

3. What does the expression "ghost acreage from coal" refer to?
  A) The amount of land used for coal production
  B) The amount of land needed to produce enough wood to replace coal as an energy source
  C) The amount of land that is no longer usable because of coal mining
  D) The amount of land used in mining coal that is imported from foreign countries

4. What does the professor imply is the reason why Britain imported cotton rather than produce its own wool?
  A) Cotton had more industrial uses in Britain than wool did.
  B) Imported cotton was cheaper than local wool.
  C) Impurities in the soil made it difficult to grow cotton in Britain.
  D) Britain did not have enough land on which to raise the number of sheep needed.

5. What is the professor's opinion about the textbook?
  A) She questions the accuracy of the percentages cited in the textbook.
  B) She does not agree with the conclusions drawn by the author of the textbook.
  C) She thinks the way the textbook presents some information is not especially instructive.
  D) She believes that the textbook does not place enough emphasis on Britain's natural resources.

6. What does the professor think is one benefit of using the concept of ghost acreage in the discussion of British industrialization?
  A) It provides a good indication of the degree of Britain's dependence on international trade.
  B) It enables accurate calculations of the amount of coal that was acquired by Britain through trade.
  C) It allows accurate measurements of how much land was used to grow certain crops.
  D) It allows researchers to determine how land was actually used during industrialization.
