1. What does the professor mainly discuss?
  A) How social behavior develops in chimpanzees
  B) Different types of reciprocal behavior in chimpanzees
  C) The development of communication in chimpanzees
  D) Whether unselfish behavior exists in chimpanzees

2. Why does the professor mention grooming behavior in chimpanzees?
  A) To give an example of helping for a selfish reason
  B) To demonstrate that chimpanzees engage in social behavior
  C) To provide a clear instance of chimpanzees practicing altruism
  D) To provide evidence of communication that is not language based

3. According to the professor, what two factors have discouraged chimpanzees from helping others in previous experiments? [choose two answers]
  A) Having to choose to give up food
  B) Competition for group rank
  C) A lack of direct request
  D) A lack of previous social interaction

4. Why did researchers give chimpanzees the correct tools in the matched condition in experiment one?
  A) To verify that the chimpanzees knew what to do with them
  B) To find out how often chimpanzees would trade tools when they did not need to
  C) To determine which tool each chimpanzee preferred
  D) To ensure that the chimpanzees would not become too familiar with the testing condition

5. What can be inferred from the results of experiment two?
  A) Mother chimpanzees interact with different offspring in different ways.
  B) A chimpanzee's position in the social hierarchy will determine whether it will behave altruistically.
  C) Requests are more important than reciprocity in motivating chimpanzee helping behavior
  D) Chimpanzees lack the ability to behave altruistically.

6. What is the professor's opinion of the lack of voluntary altruism in chimpanzees?
  A) It suggests that the chimpanzees' behavior was selfish.
  B) It shows that chimpanzees are not as social as previously thought.
  C) It might be influenced by the genetic relationship of the chimpanzees.
  D) It is the result of chimpanzees' inability to understand the needs of others.
