1. What is the lecture mainly about?
  A) A safe tool that can be used to clean works of art without damaging them
  B) A comparison of significant works of art from different time periods
  C) A scientific technique that can be used to analyze the materials used in works of art
  D) Different materials that master artists have traditionally used

2. What point does the professor make about ion beams when he mentions pottery?
  A) They can be used to clean the surface of painting and pottery.
  B) They can damage a piece of art if not used carefully.
  C) They are better suited for analyzing some types of art than for others.
  D) They are able to provide information about a work of art from small samples.

3. What does the professor imply about the statue with ruby eyes?
  A) It has been shown to be older than previously thought.
  B) Some of the materials used to make the statue were acquired through trade.
  C) It was a gift to the Louvre Museum from the Vietnamese government.
  D) The rubies originally came from a mine in Babylonia.

4. What did researchers conclude from analyzing the silverpoint sketches of Albrecht Durer?
  A) The sketches were intended as a gift to the emperor of the Holy Roman Empire.
  B) Ion beams are more effective for analyzing silverpoint that for analyzing paintings.
  C) Some of the sketches were made with a technique that did not involve silver.
  D) Art historians were most likely correct in their assumption about the sketches.

5. Why does the professor mention Rembrandt's use of wheat flour?
  A) To explain the role of ion beams in a successful restoration of a Rembrandt painting
  B) To point out one way to identify paintings from the Renaissance period
  C) To give an example of what ion beams can reveal about an artist's techniques
  D) To illustrate how Rembrandt was influenced by Albrecht Durer

6. What is the professor's opinion about using ion beam technology to detect fake works of art?
  A) He is pleased that it is becoming less expensive.
  B) He is convinced that it is well suited for this use.
  C) He is worried that it is not being used frequently enough.
  D) He doubts that it is as reliable as it needs to be.
