#article
Archaeologists recently discovered traces of domesticated wheat at a prehistoric site in Britain that was once dry land but has been underwater for thousands of years. These wheat remains were discovered in layers of soil that are 8,000 years old, suggesting that the wheat was 8,000 years old. This discovery was surprising because it has been widely believed that farming did not begin in Britain until 6,000 years ago. To explain presence of wheat 2,000 years earlier than expected, scientists have proposed several theories.

   Dating Error
   One theory holds that the wheat is actually much younger than the soil layers where it was found. Soil is formed in layers. Newer layers are formed on top of older layers. This means that older layers are buried beneath newer layers. Wheat particles are light and can easily be transported by water. It is possible that as the ocean covered the site, ocean water carried wheat particles from later time periods down to the deeper, older layers of soil, until the wheat ended up mixed with soil that dated to a much earlier time than the wheat itself.

   Trade
   Another theory holds that the wheat really is 8,000 years old, but it was not grown in Britain. According to this theory, hunter-gatherers in Britain traded for wheat with mainland Europeans. Prehistoric inhabitants of Britain may have built boats capable of traveling across shallow seas, so it is likely that they interacted and traded with people on the continent of Europe.

   British Farmers
   A third theory, however, holds that farming began in Britain earlier than was previously believed. While most of Britain's inhabitants 8,000 years ago were hunter-gatherers, it is possible that some were farmers. Some prehistoric people at this British site may simply have adopted farming long before the majority of Britain's population did.


#record
Now listen to part of a lecture on the topic you just read about

(male professor) Each of the theories you read about is problematic. It's still not clear why domesticated wheat was found at an eight-thousand-year old site in Britain.

First, the idea that this is a dating mistake because newer wheat somehow got mixed with older layers of soil is not convincing. This mixing would be possible only if the layers of soil were loosely packed. However, the soils there were actually very dense leaving no space between soil particles for wheat to move downward to older layers. In fact, scientists found evidence of many different species of plants in the upper layers of soil, but none of these species were found in the lower layers. So, it's clear that newer and older soil layers and their contents did not mix.

Second, the problem with the theory of trade is this: you see, eight thousand years ago, farming was practiced in the southern part of Europe, very far away from Britain. If people from Britain had traveled to Europe by boat, they would have arrived in northern Europe, where farming had not yet started. And given the difficulty of travel at that time, it's unlikely that prehistoric people from Britain would have traveled far enough into Europe all the way to southern Europe to trade for domesticated wheat.

Finally, it's also unlikely that early farmers actually grew wheat at the site. Farmed wheat goes through a life cycle that includes a reproductive phase. In reproduction, wheat, like many other plants, releases powdery pollens that spread throughout the area. The little grains of pollen are very characteristic of the specific plant species that produce them. However, while scientists found pollen from several species of wild plants at the site, they did not find any pollen of domesticated wheat plants at the site. So, lack of wheat pollen at the site casts serious doubt on the idea that any wheat farming took place there.
#question
Summarize the points made in the lecture, being sure to explain how they cast doubt on the specific theories mentioned in the reading passage.