Listen to a conversation between a student and a university employee at campus security.

(woman) Hi, um, I think my car might have been towed.
(man) OK, well, we don't handle that here. You'd need to go two blocks up the road on the right to retrieve it at storage. It's a brick building with a huge parking lot. But, might have? Where did you leave it?
(woman) In front of Roth Hall, my dormitory.
(man) Did you have a parking permit?
(woman) Yeah, I bought one here yesterday. I knew I need it to move into my dorm.
(man) And did you display it on the dashboard?
(woman) Yeah, I put it where I was supposed to.
(man) Hmm, so, when did you last leave your car?
(woman) I don't remember exactly what time. I finished moving in around two in the morning. And when I went out around nine this morning, it wasn't there.
(man) I see. I guess you didn't realize that all permits expire at midnight. It says so right on the front of the permit. So, you're right, it probably was towed.
(woman) Oh, I bought a permit so I thought I was covered.
(man) But not after midnight, there are no overnight permits. Too bad you didn't know that. You could have called us here and whoever was working might have been able to make arrangements with you to let you park overnight. Depending on the circumstances, we can make allowances.
(woman) And obviously moving is a legitimate reason.
(man) Well, it's case by case. Anyway, you should have your basic information handy for the people at storage: the year and the make of the car, your license plate number, and
(woman) Uh, I'm not sure about those things. See, it's not my car. My friend let me borrow hers and she doesn't go to school here.
(man) Oh, well, that complicates things because the owner of the car, uh, your friend's gonna have to be there in person to retrieve it.
(woman) I can't resolve this without bothering her?
(man) Sorry, they can't just hand the car over to you without proof of ownership, and, not only that, but there's a parking ticket that your friend's going to have to deal with sooner or later. You're gonna have to explain that to her, too.
(woman) Well, she is not gonna like this. She goes to school in Providence. She wasn't planning to come to pick up the car until this weekend.
(man) Well, unfortunately, every day the car is in storage, and additional daily storage fee is charged.
(woman) Oh, what a hassle! 
(man) Yes, well, I suggest you call her as soon as you can.