Listen to part of a lecture in a History class.

(female professor) As we said yesterday, Britain was the first nation to, uh, stumble into industrialization. Now, for centuries, literarily centuries, historians have examined the where's and why's of this process. Usually, these studies focus on a rather bland list of numbers measuring how much coal was used or how much cotton was produced, for example, a chart in your textbook lists that in 1830 Britain produced two hundred million tons of coal, two hundred million! But how much is that really? Your textbook doesn't really give you an appreciation of this number. So, recently we've begun to use a new analysis of industrialization that helps us to illustrate the scale and the significance of numbers like this.

Now, let's take a closer look at coal. For centuries, coal was widely available in Britain. However, the British depended on wood as a fuel for general use, and, in particular, as a fuel in the production of important metals such as iron. That's because coal contained impurities like iron sulfide. And iron, which was manufactured by burning coal, was too brittle, easily breakable. This demand for wood had depleted British supplies long before industrialization. Forests disappeared and the iron industry went into serious decline. So the British then imported most of their iron. But, then, they developed a new method of producing iron using coal which overcame the earlier problems of producing low-quality iron. So, thanks to this new process, coal became the basis of British industrialization.

Now, what exactly does it mean to use two hundred million tons of coal? Here's a way to put it in perspective: rather than measuring the coal itself that was used, we can measure the savings that come from using coal instead of the alternative, which in this case would be wood. This is what we call ghost acreage. When we talk about a specific resource, we use the term ghost acreage to refer to the amount of land, how many acres of land or the acreage, that would be needed to replace, um, to provide a substitute for that resource. Yes, Bob?

(male student) So, for coal, the ghost acreage would be the amount of land used to grow enough trees for wood as a substitute source of energy?

(professor) Right, to replace the same amount energy generated by coal

(male student) But, ghost acreage, what does it replace? I mean, it's not land you're actually using for anything like to grow any product.

(professor) That's right. It just refers to, gives us some measure of how much land you would need if you were to replace a particular product. Let's look at an example. We estimate that in Britain in the 1800s, the total amount of arable land, land useable for growing things was around seventeen million acres. And to replace all the coal used in Britain at the time, we estimate you'd have to harvest twenty one million acres of trees. It's ghost acreage in that burning the coal did not actually use up twenty one millions of trees. In fact, that was more than all the available farmland in Britain at the time.

OK, now, if the search for sources of energy drove Britain underground for coal, the search for other resources, especially cotton, drove it overseas. The role of cotton imports here is impressive even when measured with the kinds of endless charts and figures your textbook cites, which is either a percentage of total imports or in tons. But, again, it's the ghost acreage that shows the real importance of these imported products.

Now, the most likely replacement for cotton would be wool. And wool requires land for raising sheep. So, again, looking at Britain in the 1800s, we calculate the ghost acreage from cotton to be some twenty three million acres. Again, this is far more than the total useable acreage available in all of Britain.

Just about any import can be calculated in terms of ghost acreage. Take sugar for example, or timber. All told, the total ghost acreage Britain required by importing cotton, sugar and timber in the 1800s was as much as thirty million acres, an impressive number when compared to other countries at the time. So, the upshot of all these is, well, by using ghost acreage you get a much better understanding of all those large numbers in the textbook. More importantly, it gives us a truer picture of how much Britain depended on trade with other countries, of just how much all that industrialization required Britain to import the supplies it needed.
