
Listen to part of a lecture in an Animal Behavior class.

(female professor) So, we've discussed some features of social behavior in animals, how different animals interact with other members of their species. And last class we touched on altruism or the ability to engage in unselfish behavior, to take action that may benefit others and not oneself. Uh, we have an interesting discussion about why altruism may have developed. But, today, I want to consider another question that scientists have been debating for some time, the question whether we can actually see altruistic behavior in animals.

Some have argued that what appears to be unselfish altruistic behavior is actually selfish, to avoid being harassed, for example, or to derive some reciprocity, some benefit exchange in their helping behavior. For example, smaller male chimpanzees appear to groom or clean their fellow chimpanzees more often than larger males. Now, at first, researchers thought this was altruistic behavior because there didn't seem to be any benefit to the chimpanzees doing the grooming. They weren't being groomed in turn.

But on closer observation, researchers realized that the smaller chimpanzees were engaging in this behavior because it helps them move up in the social hierarchy. But some researchers in Japan wondered whether there were situations in which chimpanzees might, in fact, help altruistically without expecting anything in return. Now, past experiments have suggested that chimpanzees are not likely to behave altruistically when it comes to giving up food. Nor would they offer help unless it's directly requested.

So the researchers conducted two experiments that tested the importance of direct requests and they didn't require the chimpanzees to give up food. Three mother-offspring pairs and three non-genetically related pairs of chimpanzees participated in experiment one. An individual sat in a clear plastic booth adjoining its partner's booth. There was a hole through the adjoining wall that the chimpanzees could pass tools through. In one booth, a juice box was attached to a wall and couldn't be accessed without a straw. Another juice box was placed just outside the other booth and couldn't be reached without using a stick to pull it in.

At first, each chimpanzee was given the tool it needed to get at the juice. This is what is called the matched condition. The matched condition wasn't testing altruism. It allowed the researcher to see how often chimpanzees would trade tools for unrelated reasons such as play. To establish what might be considered normal behavior. Next, the tools were mismatched, that is, the chimpanzee who needed the straw had a stick and vice versa. The researchers then looked to see whether the two chimpanzees helped each other.

They found that in the matched condition, the chimpanzees hardly ever share their tools. But in the mismatched condition, where each needed the other's tool, they helped quite frequently, but usually only if the tool was requested. Requests would be made by reaching through the hole between the two booths, sometimes a chimp would also make a noise such as clapping or banging on the wall. Mother-offspring pairs tended to make more requests than unrelated pairs. But requests were the deciding factor for both groups and the unrelated pairs responded positively as often as the related pairs.

Interestingly, there was more reciprocity in mother-offspring pairs. They tended to exchange tools, whereas with unrelated pairs, the giving tended to go only one way. This might have something to do with the fact that one partner in each unrelated pair was dominant and it was the subordinate who typically gave to the dominant, issues of power. But the exchange between mother and offspring, that left researchers with the question, ¡°What's more important, reciprocity or request?¡±

Which brings us to the experiment two: the researchers created the second situation, one in which reciprocity wasn't possible, only one partner was struggling for juice and the other partner had the correct tool. The researchers found that transfer was just as high in the second experiment as in the first. It's interesting, though, in both experiments there was virtually no voluntary altruism, that is, the chimpanzees wouldn't, uh, just see their partners struggling and offer their tool. An individual had to make a request. 

Is this a sign of selfishness or if I may offer my opinion, is it that they're simply not able to easily discern or infer the needs or others, something to be investigated. In any case, the result certainly suggests that chimpanzees can be altruistic, or at least that they'll help each other without short-term reciprocity. There may, of course, be long-term reciprocity benefits that aren't immediately apparent.

