#article
Ban Bikes in the Center of Campus

Many students get around campus by riding bicycles, which is great. However, I think that  in  one  area in  particular  the  center  of  campus  between  the  academic buildings riding bikes should be prohibited. The sidewalks connecting the academic buildings are narrow. When students ride their bikes on these sidewalks it's not very safe for other students who are walking to their classes because there's very little room on them. In order to ensure that students follow the rule, anyone caught riding their bikes in this area should be made to pay a fine.
Sincerely, Sam Carlton

#record
Female Student: You know, I’m surprised by this suggestion.
Male Student: Oh, you mean the idea in the letter?
Female Student: Yeah. I don’t think we need that. I mean, most students get off their bikes and walk them anyway, and everyone is able to get through without any problem. So all you probably need to do is put up a few signs politely asking everyone to walk their bikes.
Male Student: And you think that would take care of it?
Female Student: I don’t see why not. Students are pretty responsible. And since most do it already, that might be just what the few that don’t need.
Male Student: Yeah, you’re probably right.
Female Student: Plus, I don’t think the suggestion for enforcing it would work.
Male Student: Why not?
Female Student: Well someone, probably campus security, would have to stand there watching that area all the time, right?
Male Student: Right.
Female Student: Well that’d be a total waste of resources. I mean, campus security officers have more important things to do than that. It really wouldn’t be a good use of their time. 
Male Student: No, it wouldn’t.
Female Student: And, I don’t think students would take kindly to the idea, either.
Male Student: I know I wouldn’t.
Female Student: Me neither.

#Question
The woman expresses her opinion about the proposal described in the letter. Briefly summarize the proposal. Then state her opinion about the proposal and explain the reasons she gives for holding that opinion.
