#record
Listen to part of a lecture in a Biology class.

(female professor) So we know many animals communicate with each other, but did you know that animals that hatch from eggs sometimes communicate while they’re still inside their shells? The unhatched animals make noises that communicate that they’re ready to hatch; break out of their eggs. And this communication plays an important role in helping the young survive.

One way is when there are multiple eggs in the nest it’s important that all the eggs hatch at the same time. This is because some mothers leave the nest soon after the babies hatch. If babies hatch late, the mother would leave them behind. And these babies won’t survive. But by communicating to each other, unhatched animals help ensure that all the eggs hatch at the same time, so none get left behind. Ducks provide a good example, when one baby duck is ready to hatch, it communicates to the other ducks in the nest by making loud clicking noises, sort of saying “let’s get ready to hatch”. The other baby ducks in the nest respond with clicking noises of their own, spreading the message around. This way, all the baby ducks get the signal to hatch at the same time and they all leave the nest with the mother, swim after her into a pond, say. 

Another way that communication before hatching is good for survival is that it prompts mothers to help with the baby’s hatching. The noises communicate to the mother that they’re about to hatch, sort of signal to the mother to help them. For example, crocodiles. Crocodiles lay their eggs in mud, cover the eggs in mud. And just before the baby crocodiles hatch, they scratch on the insides of their eggs to communicate to the mother. The mother responds to these scratching sounds by removing the mud that’s covering the eggs, cleaning off this mud is critical for the baby’s survival. Without the mother’s help, the heavy mud covering the eggs would make it difficult for the babies to free themselves from the shells and emerge from the eggs.

#question
Using the examples of ducks and crocodiles from the lecture, explain two ways communication before hatching helps animals to survive.