#article
Restraint Bias

People are often challenged by temptations or desires，and at times ，these temptations may prevent a person from reaching certain goals. Resisting temptation can be difficult. In fact ，psychologists have found that people often overestimate their own ability to resist temptation . This tendency is known as restraint bias. Restraint bias makes people feel as if they have more power to control，or restrain，their behavior than they actually do. 80 instead of being cautious about tempting situations and avoiding them ，people put themselves in such situations. They believe they will be able to control their actions ，but in reality they often do not.

#record
Now listen to part of a lecture on this topic in a psychology class.
Ok, so here's an example of this. My daughter, she's a university student and she loves to shop. She likes buying herself new clothes in stores. Well, we’ve observed this about her since her high school days. Any little money she has she spends shopping for clothes. Well, last year her Spanish class was planning a trip to Mexico and so she had to save some money to pay for the trip. You know what that means. No more shopping. In fact, my daughter told everyone she wasn’t going to go shopping at all that spring. She was just going to use the clothes she already had. She started to save the money she was earning from her part-time job for the Mexico trip and she was pretty confident that her saving plan would be successful. At first she didn't have any trouble with her plan. She just avoided the clothing shops, but one day after some time had passed her friends invited her to go shopping with them. You’d have expected her to say no, but she didn't. She said she would go along and just not buy anything. She was sure she could just hang out with her friends, just accompany them, and look at clothing items without buying anything. Well, that didn't happen. She saw some clothes she really liked in one of the stores and ended up spending her money on them. And that, of course, affected her savings for the trip to Mexico. 

#question
Explain how the example from the lecture illustrates the concept of restraint bias.