#article
University to Close East Campus Cafeteria

In addition to the main cafeteria on West Campus, the university currently operates a smaller cafeteria on East Campus. Next year, however, the East Campus cafeteria will be permanently closed. University president Robert Yeoman explains: “Relatively few students use the East Campus cafeteria—not enough to justify the expense of keeping it open.” When asked about future plans for the East Campus cafeteria building, the President replied, “There are no immediate plans for the building as of this time, but we'll be looking at a number of options.”

#record
Now listen to two students discussing the article.

(man) Did you see this article?
(woman) Yeah I did.
(man) I really wish they wouldn't do this.
(woman) Oh really? Seems to make sense though if it's not getting a lot of use.
(man) Yeah I understand why they might be saying that, but it is still really important for students who have a lot of classes on east campus like I'm a science major and all the science classrooms and science labs are on east campus.
(woman) Okay…
(man) And I don't have enough time between classes to take the bus over to west campus, get something to eat and then take the bus back. So this is not good news for students like me. We're gonna have to eat snacks all day instead of getting a good meal like we can get in the cafeteria.
(woman) Yeah, I hear what you are saying.
(man) And the other thing is, I mean, it doesn't even sound like they know what they're gonna do with that space yet.
(woman) No, apparently not, judging by what the president said.
(man) Right, so I'm worried that they'll probably just end up leaving it empty and the last thing we need is another empty building on east campus.
(woman) You mean what they did with the fitness center.
(man) Yeah, when they closed that, they were supposed to be turning it into an art gallery but so far it's been sitting there vacant and it's been over a year now and it doesn't look good. 
(woman) You're right it doesn't look good, sitting there empty.
(man) Right and if they go forward with this without any clear idea of what they want to do with the space, they're gonna make east campus look even worse.

#question
The man expresses his opinion about the plan described in the article. Briefly summarize the plan. Then state his opinion about the plan and explain the reasons he gives for holding that opinion.

