
#article
Bet Hedging in Plants

Over time, plant species have adapted to ensure that they will successfully reproduce. However, some plant species live in unpredictable environments, where climate conditions vary and may prevent the growth of seeds into new plants. As a result, some plant species have developed an adaptation of risk management known as bet hedging that protects them against possible loss. Bet Hedging is a reproductive strategy in which plant produces seeds that do not all begin growing at the same time. It is effective because if some seeds begin growing when conditions are poor and the young plants subsequently die, other seeds will begin growing when conditions improve, allowing new plants to survive. 


#record
Now listen to part of a lecture on this topic in a Biology class.

(male professor) Okay, so we can see examples of this in deserts. There aren’t that many plants that can grow in the desert of course, but there are some. In the western United States for instance, there are deserts where a type of weed called pepper grass grows. And in these dry desert places where pepper grass is found, it will rain sometimes but other times there are long periods without any rain at all, sometimes for more than a year. 

So because of these long periods without rain, pepper grass plants have evolved in special ways. Like other plants, they produce a lot of seeds and some of these seeds mature and sprout right away. They put down roots and become plants during that same year. But the pepper grass produces some seeds that don’t do anything during the first year, they don’t sprout at all. 

Now, if there’s not much rain that first year, the new pepper grass shoots that did sprout, as you might expect, will dry out and die. But remember that there are still seeds left, the ones that didn’t sprout. So there’s still a good chance that these other seeds will begin to grow at some later time, in the second year or even the third year, when there may be more rain.

#question
Explain how the example of pepper grass from the lecture illustrates the concept of bet hedging in plants.
