#record
Listen to part of a lecture in a Business class. The professor is talking about advertising.

(female professor) So you’re a company and you have a product. Why do you advertise the product? Because you want people to buy it, specifically, you want consumers to buy your product rather than a competing product, somebody else's product. A key to effective advertising is simply getting customers to know the name of your product, this is called “name recognition”. So how do you achieve name recognition for your product and why is it so important? 

Well let's start with a “how”, how do you get customers to remember your product's name? You repeat it. If you have a new laundry detergent called “Quick Wash” and you’re making a television advertisement, then your ad for Quick Wash should use the name “Quick Wash” as many times as possible and the word “Quick Wash” should be on the screen. By repeating the name “Quick Wash” over and over, you’ll get consumers to remember it. But why is name recognition so important? Well two reasons. 

First, just knowing the name makes customers more likely to buy. Studies show that consumers will favor products they know the name of. So if they see a bunch of different detergents on the store shelves and they don’t know anything about them, they will choose Quick Wash just because they know its name. 

And secondly, when you’re telling people about your product, how good it is, name recognition is essential, since you need them to remember that it's your product that they’re hearing all these great things about. You can make a television ad that shows how amazing Quick Wash detergent is at taking out dirt, but if consumers don’t remember the name, well, the advertising won’t do any good. When they’re in the store buying detergent, they have to remember which detergent is so amazing against dirt. You want them to remember that it's Quick Wash.

#question
Using examples from the lecture, explain how name recognition is achieved and why it is important in advertising.
