1. The word “intended” in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) correct  B) desired  C) expected  D) required2. The phrase “in principle” in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) as needed  B) with little effort  C) quickly  D) theoretically3. According to paragraph 1, large-scale wind sensors help a flying animal to  A) determine how fast it needs to fly to make use of the relative wind  B) avoid being caught in wind gusts  C) maintain its course when hit by passing wind gusts  D) adjust its movements for effective wing stroke4. The word “constraints” in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) design  B) materials  C) limitations  D) characteristics5. Which of the following can be inferred from paragraph 2 about the insect exoskeleton?  A) It is less rigid in insects with simple nervous systems than in insects with more complex nervous systems.  B) It prevents the insect nervous system from detecting external stimuli except through special structures.  C) Its rigidity determines how effective insect sensory receptors are at detecting external stimuli.  D) It controls where in the insect brain sensory information is sent.6. According to paragraph 2, scientists have sometimes been able to tell which of the following about insects?  A) Exactly how many structural specializations a specific insect has  B) How often a stimulus must occur before it triggers a given hair  C) Why sensory modifications often take the form of a hair  D) How a hair’s sensations are used by the insect brain7. According to paragraph 3, what indicates that a flying insect is using its antennae for wind sensing?  A) The specific location of the antennae on the insect’s head  B) The way the insect holds its antennae while flying  C) The size and shape of the insect’s antennae  D) The increased sensitivity of the nerves at the base of the antennae8. According to paragraph 3, what happens when the antennae of a flying insect are deflected by wind?  A) The deflection is detected by sensitive hairs on the insect’s head.  B) The antennae stop responding to smell, sounds, and touch and focus completely on wind sensing.  C) The deflection produces a sensation that triggers a steering reflex.  D) The insect adjusts its antennae so that they point in the direction of the relative wind.9. Why does the author point out that having “both antennae and head hairs for wind sensing” is a “kind of redundancy” that is “rare in biology”?  A) To challenge the idea that insect antennae detect exactly the same aspects of the wind that insect head hairs do  B) To point out a specific way in which the insects studied so far differ from most other insects  C) To explain why it is thought that the insects studied so far are likely to have predators that bite off their antennae  D) To argue that it is unnecessary for the insects studied so far to have two different mechanisms for sensing wind10. According to paragraph 4, head hairs may be better than antennae at performing all of the following functions EXCEPT   A) sensing wind speed   B) responding to brief changes in the wind   C) sensing the direction of the wind   D) responding to vertical gusts of wind11. The word “surely” in the passage is closest in meaning to   A) generally   B) actually   C) additionally   D) certainly12. According to paragraph 5, wind-sensing abilities are more difficult to study in birds and bats than in insects for each of the following reasons EXCEPT:   A) Birds and bats have far more tactile sensors that are capable of detecting wind than insects have.   B) The nervous systems of birds and bats are much more complex than those of insects.   C) Birds and bats are less affected by wind than insects are.   D) The tactile sensors of birds and bats are not always connected to body structures that have a clear sensory function.13.Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   
   A more likely explanation is that each one has its own function.   
   Where would the sentence best fit?14.Prose Summary   
   Sensing airflow can be very useful to an animal that flies, particularly in terms of triggering flight-steering behavior.   
   Answer Choices:   
   A) Insects detect outside stimuli through specialized structures – often hairs – that transmit signals to the nervous system, thereby triggering behavioral responses.   B) Animals that can detect the fine details of airflow on their wings are better at steering than animals that sense wind speed only, but animals that can do both have the best steering response.   C) In addition to using wind-sensitive hairs, insects use antennae as large-scale wind detectors, with a nerve at the base of the antenna triggering a steering reflex.   D) If an insect’s antennae are bitten off by predators, insects can then grow new head hairs that develop the function of wind sensing.   E) Flying animals have primary as well as secondary wind sensors, using the primary sensors in moderate wind conditions and the secondary sensors in extreme wind conditions.   F) Flight-steering behavior has not yet been linked to wind sensing in birds and bats, whose complex nervous systems and tactile sensors make study difficult.