1. According to paragraph 1, which of the following was true of rural industries in fifteenth-century Europe?  A) They were more common in Italy than in most other European countries.  B) They were usually not subject to quality controls.  C) They moved from producing cheap to more expensive woolens.  D) They often manufactured goods that were not in demand in cities.2. According to paragraph 2, which of the following is true about the putting-out system?  A) Work was typically performed on a full-time basis in rural areas.  B) Work could be done at equal cost in the city, suburbs, or countryside.  C) Merchants respected guild controls on manufacturing.  D) Merchants arranged work directly with artisans.3. Why does the author include the information that "there were over 3 million sheep in Castile alone" ?  A) To help explain why English wool producers were no longer able to compete with Spanish wool produces  B) To suggest how difficult it was for Spanish wool manufacturers to find enough pasture for their livestock  C) To support a claim that merino sheep had become the primary livestock in Spain by 1500  D) To emphasize how successful unprocessed wool production had become in Spain by 15004. According to paragraph 3, which of the following changes affected the international exchange of wool?  A) England stopped exporting unprocessed wool.  B) England began to make large amounts of cloth.  C) Spain began exporting merino sheep to other countries.  D) Spain began to develop a cloth manufacturing industry.5. Which of the following is NOT an element of the mechanical fulling process discussed in paragraph 4?  A) The use of water as a power source  B) The transformation of raw wool into cloth  C) An increase in the weight of cloth after processing  D) The pressing of earth and other materials into cloth6. The word "ideally" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) perfectly  B) fortunately  C) deliberately  D) centrally7. The phrase "coupled with" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) resulting in  B) caused by  C) introduced by  D) added to8. The word "consumption" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) industrial activity  B) use of products and services  C) education  D) labor9. The word "prosperous" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) powerful  B) dynamic  C) wealthy  D) commercial10. Which of the following is NOT mentioned in paragraph 5 as a factor in the expansion of London as a political and economic capital?   A) An increase in cloth export   B) An increasing concentration of commerce among London merchants   C) The ease of access to London from the sea   D) The significant political role of London merchants11. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.   A) Unlike other governments in northern Europe, the government in Leiden ensured social stability by limiting the power of the town's leading cloth merchants.   B) Northern European governments prevented leading cloth merchants from ensuring full employment and social stability.   C) Some European town governments reduced the control of resources by cloth merchants in order to protect aspects of employment, political power, and social stability.   D) In northern European towns like Leiden, the government no longer supported cloth merchants because their increased political power threatened social stability12. Paragraph 6 suggests that some members of the fifteenth-century European ruling class felt that traditional values would be threatened if   A) the ruling classes in European towns were given excessive political power   B) apprentices were permitted to work alongside their masters in the marketplace   C) new entrepreneurs were allowed to compete freely with established merchants   D) guild masters had control over the distribution of resources13.Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.      In the past, this treatment process had required much more human labor.      Where would the sentence best fit?14.Prose Summary   Fifteenth-century Europe saw dramatic changes in cloth manufacturing practices    Answer Choices:      A) Much of the production of woolens moved from urban locations to the rural countryside, weakening the control of wool guilds.   B) Guild masters objected strongly to the lack of supervision over wool production taking place outside of Europe's cities.   C) Spain and England began participating in the fifteenth-century woolen trade in new ways that changed the nature of that trade in various ways.   D) London's riverside location ensured the ample supply of water required for new cloth manufacturing techniques.   E) An increase in young entrepreneurs in the cloth production industry resulted in a wider variety of cloth being available for export.   F) Many Europeans town governments attempted to preserve stability and tradition in the cloth market by suppressing competition.