1. The word "vigorous" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) normal  B) strong  C) similar  D) numerous2. According to paragraph 1, if gene flow between two populations is unrestricted, then  A) speciation will inevitably occur  B) the size of the populations will increase  C) genetic differences between the two populations will increase  D) changes in one population will spread to the other3. Paragraph 1 implies that the defining factor in determining whether two populations belong to the same species is whether they  A) can interbreed and produce vigorous, fertile offspring  B) occupy the same geographic area  C) share common ancestors  D) are subject to the same environmental pressures4. The word "seldom" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) rarely  B) directly  C) certainly  D) commonly5. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.  A) A restriction of gene flow between groups can result from differences in habitat or breeding period as well as from separation by a physical barrier.  B) Changes in habitat may cause some species to become isolated from other populations living in the same location.  C) When gene flow is restricted, groups within a species tend to migrate to different habitats within the same area.  D) Although isolated populations can find a way to overcome physical barriers, they sometimes remain separate because there is no breeding between them.6. What is the purpose of paragraph 3 in the passage?  A) To recognize that the requirements for speciation described in paragraph 1 have some exceptions for some populations  B) To clarify what seems to be a contradiction between information in paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 regarding the requirements for speciation  C) To present a third hypothetical mechanism for speciation beyond what is described in paragraph 1 and 2  D) To argue that there is only one valid mechanism for speciation in spite of information given in paragraph 27. The word "suitable" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) changing  B) appropriate  C) separate  D) reduced8. According to paragraph 4, which of the following is a situation that may lead to allopatric speciation?  A) A small group of insects is carried by a storm to an island that was previously uninhabited by their species.  B) Two herds of the same species unite to form one large herd.  C) Because of geological activity, individual populations of an organism are able to expand over a much wider area.  D) A species of bird builds nests in both marshes and forests.9. The phrase "the aftermath of a founder event" is closest in meaning to  A) the situation leading to a founder event  B) the period during which a founder event is occurring  C) the location where a founder event is occurring  D) The situation that results from a founder event10. According to paragraph 5, genetic drift is most likely to occur in which of the following?   A) in relatively simple organisms   B) in water-dwelling populations   C) in small, isolated populations   D) in populations that interbreed11. According to paragraph 5, it is generally accepted by biologists that allopatric speciation is   A) likely to occur before geographic isolation occurs   B) most frequently caused by a single genetic change   C) the usual cause of the formation of new animal species   D) slower than the process of sympatric speciation12. According to paragraph 5 and 6, which of the following necessarily occurs in both allopatric and sympatric speciation?   A) Two groups of the same species become geographically separated.   B) Two populations of the same species experience a reduction in gene exchange between the two groups.   C) Two groups of the same species focus on different food sources.   D) One group of a species adapts better to its environment than another group of the same species.13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.       Alternatively, it might occur when a population remains more or less in the same area but a physical barrier arises separating some members of the population from others.        Where would the sentence best fit?14. Prose Summary    Speciation is the process through which new species form.    Answer Choices:   A) Biologists have demonstrated that speciation within most habitats is usually allopatric rather than sympatric.   B) For a new species to arise, a population must be prevented from interbreeding with other populations and become sufficiently different genetically from other populations.   C) Physical barriers, differences of habitat, or mismatched breeding cycles can lead to reduced gene flow between populations, resulting in genetic divergence.   D) A group is considered a distinct species when its members are no longer able to produce fertile offspring with members of other populations.   E) Because species living in ecologically diverse areas are unlikely to migrate, speciation is more common in such areas than in less diverse ones.   F) Shifts in climate can cause a portion of a population to become isolated in what becomes a new habitat.