#article
Extraction of important and rare metals is becoming more difficult through traditional methods of mining, and people are worried about the environmental impact of traditional mining. Mining companies are therefore looking for alternatives. One possibility is deep-sea mining, in which metals from volcanic vents on the ocean floor are gathered. These vents are like natural mine shafts extending beneath Earth's crust. In fact, exploratory vent mining will soon begin on the ocean floor off the coast of Papua New Guinea. There are several reasons for thinking that vent mining holds promise.

    First, the volcanic vents used in deep-sea mining represent rich and plentiful sources of metal deposits. Many metals that are becoming increasingly scarce in mines on Earth's surface, including gold, silver, and zinc, can be mined from the vents on the ocean floor. In this way, we can eliminate concerns that there will be a shortage of these metals when traditional mines run out of them.

    Second, undersea mining will not disturb the vents, which are home to many unique organisms that live very close to the vent openings and nowhere else on Earth. The metal-rich material coming out of a volcanic vent spreads a considerable distance from the vent – as much as two kilometers. The mining of the metals can therefore take place two kilometers away from the vents and their unique ecosystems.

    Third, vent mining can be efficiently managed and regulated with the help of international laws and agencies. The International Seabed Authority and the United Nations Convention of the Law of the Sea have been in place for years. Thanks to these agencies, there are laws about how the ocean floor can be used and what must be done to protect the ocean. These laws will ensure that the mines are properly run and do not harm the ocean.
#record
Now listen to part of a lecture on the topic you just read about.

(female professor) The arguments in favor of vent mining don’t tell the whole story. Once you have all the facts, you’ll see that vent mining is a bad idea.

First, the fact that undersea volcanic vents produce metals doesn’t mean that these metals are really available to us, getting them would require the development of new technology that would allow metals to be separated from the surrounding ocean floor sediments. The technology to do this, on a large scale, doesn’t exist yet. And there would also have to be new technology for transporting the metal to the ocean's surface. So it doesn’t matter that the metals are there, because there is not yet a practical way to collect and transport them.

Second, about protecting organisms that live around the vents, mining two kilometers from the vents will not protect these organisms. That's because materials can spread on the ocean floor in all directions. As you read in the passage, the metals can spread two kilometers away from the vent, but the harmful chemicals used in mining can also drift back two kilometers to the vent when the ocean floor is disturbed by mining. That will harm any organisms living near the vents.

Third, international laws are great if vent mines are in international waters. But most mining companies are focusing on coastal areas and that's true of the New Guinea vent mining mentioned in the reading. Because coastal waters belong to a particular country, international laws do not apply to them. So, in reality, many vents are not covered by regulations. As a result, we have no way to make sure that the mining companies are well-managed and don’t make a mess of the oceans like they’ve done on land.
#question
Summarize the points made in the lecture, being sure to explain how they challenge the specific points made in the reading passage.
