1. The word "unfavorable" in the passage is closest in meaning toA) negativeB) uncontrollableC) unexpectedD) long lasting2. According to paragraph 2, which of the following was one result of the pattern of rule by child emperors?A) The common people lost respect for the position of emperor.B) Regents and advisors attempted to put an end to traditional rivalries for dominance within the court.C) Women within the dynasty gained increased influence and power.D) Traditional rules of succession by inheritance were changed.3. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.A) As young rulers, the sons and grandsons of Theodosius necessarily depended on older advisors, and as adults, they were unable to rule independently of these advisors.B) The sons and grandsons of Theodosius were too young when they came to power to rule without the assistance of older advisors.C) On reaching maturity, the sons and grandsons of Theodosius attempted to break away from the older officials who had advised them since childhood.D) Because the sons and grandsons of Theodosius were young when they became rulers, older advisors were able to prevent them from breaking away.4. In describing the frontiers of the Western Empire as "more permeable" the author means that these frontiersA) had more places where crossings could occurB) were more distant from the centerC) were more likely to be changedD) were more poorly equipped5. The word "pursue" in the passage is closest in meaning toA) expandB) engage inC) controlD) avoid6. The word "comparable" in the passage is closest in meaning toA) similarB) desirableC) necessaryD) noticeable7. Which of the following is Not identified in paragraph 3 as a factor contributing to the greater stability and success of the Eastern empire?A) A shorter border subject to invasion by Germanic tribesB) Greater cultural unity among the inhabitantsC) More resources available for achieving political goalsD) Lower population densities outside of urban areas8. In paragraph 3, why does the author discuss the Germanic culture?A) To compare the less urbanized West outside of Italy to the more urbanized EastB) To explain why Roman military and political objectives necessarily changed in the fifth centuryC) To emphasize that the Romans had more of a cultural disadvantage in the West than in the EastD) To explain why there were as many speakers of German as there were "Romans" on the western frontier9. Which of the following is NOT identified in paragraph 4 as a reason the practice arose of making Germanic chieftains generals in the Roman high command?A) It helped reduce the number of possible enemies against the empire.B) It helped make it possible to maintain an imperial military force of sufficient size.C) It was cheaper than recruiting and training Roman generals.D) It gave Theodosius confidence that his generals would remain loyal while he focused on other matters.10. According to paragraph 4, by becoming generals in the Roman army, Germainc chieftains were given a chance toA) obtain benefits from the emperorB) influence Roman civilian lifeC) help shape military policyD) attract Germanic recruits into the Roman army11. Which of the following is identified in paragraph 5 as a negative consequence of making Germanic chieftains high-ranking officers in the Roman army?A) Romans no longer sought achievement through the military.B) Germanic generals sometimes used their military power to advance their own and their tribes’ interests.C) Germanic soldiers focused on achieving imperial titles rather than military success.D) Greater divisions developed between the Western Empire and the Eastern Empire, which lacked military leadership.12. According to paragraph 5, what is one way that internal conflict in Rome endangered the peace and safety of the West?A) The conflict made it more difficult to make peace through the process of granting imperial titles and territorial concessions.B) The conflict made it easier for invaders to cross the frontier and enter Roman territory.C) The conflict discouraged Roman leaders from creating alliances and coalitions with Germanic tribes.D) The conflict made it nearly impossible to tract the activities of enemy tribes outside Roman territory.13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.Once within Roman boarders, they proved difficult to remove.Where does the sentence best fit?14. Prose SummaryVarious developments contributed to the decline of the Western Roman Empire in the fifth century.Answer Choices:A) The division of the Roman Empire into two parts was particularly damaging for the Western Empire because it relied on the Eastern Empire for economic support.B) The heirs of Theodosius came to throne as young children, allowing them to b e dominated by advisors who competed for influence at the expense of the empire's welfare.C) Western emperors after Theodosius were unable to emphasize their civilian role because of their need to rely on the protection of Germanic generals loyal to them.D) Compared to the Eastern Empire, the Western Empire had many disadvantages, including more foreign enemies and fewer material and human resources.E) Resentment against Germanic chieftains achieving high ranks in the Roman military and factionalism among Roman leaders were among the causes of the period's considerable instability.F) As the resources needed to secure Rome's borders increased, serious conflicts developed among Roman leaders over how best to protect Roman territory against invading tribes.