1. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.A) Evolution is an unpredictable process because in mass extinctions highly-evolved organisms are exterminated.B) Evolution does not progress steadily to ever-higher levels of perfection because, as shown by mass extinctions, lineages favored by evolution can be suddenly replaced by those not favored previously when circumstances change.C) Catastrophes remind us that evolution is a process in which the best-adapted organisms are exterminated and their place taken by lineages shown to be poorly adapted.D) When mass extinctions exterminate the best-adapted organisms, less important lineages suddenly become better adapted and take their place.2. According to paragraph 1, which of the following provides evidence that natural selection does not always lead to evolutionary progress?A) Most evolutionary lines that once existed on Earth have become extinct.B) Evolutionary lines usually weaken as they increase in age.C) The history of evolution shows that many evolutionary lines can become extinct at the same time.D) So far, less than one percent of evolutionary lines have achieved such perfect adaptation to their environment that they will never become extinct.3. The word "remote" in the passage is closest in meaning toA) correspondingB) distantC) separateD) direct4. In paragraph 2, why does the author discuss the ancestors of vertebrates and arthropods?A) To explain how a single feature can cause the extinction of entire groups of organismsB) To identify some factors that determine how large an organism can becomeC) To illustrate the point that earlier developments influence the possibilities for future developmentD) To emphasize the role of the environment in the development of organisms5. Which of the following can be inferred from paragraph 2 about arthropods?A) There are fewer of them than there are of vertebrates.B) Their ancestors had a selective advantage over the ancestors of vertebrates.C) Their ancestors once possessed internal skeletons.D) Their body features prevent them from becoming large organisms.6. The word "resistance" in the passage is closest in meaning toA) oppositionB) pressureC) interactionD) competition7. According to paragraph 3, why must organisms compromise between competing demands?A) A particular organ or structure may be unable to respond to selection pressures due to the needs of other parts of the organism.B) An organism's ability to respond to the forces of selection depends on the demands of other organisms within its environment.C) An organism's environment and its genotype try at the same time to influence its ability to respond to natural selection.D) Different elements of the environment call for adaptations that are often incompatible with one another.8. Paragraph 4 supports all of the statements about genes EXCEPT:A) Our understanding of the extent to which genes act independently has changed over time.B) Genes are classified into groups on the basis of their function.C) Some genes seem to have no function.D) Studies to identify ways that genes interact have been largely successful.9. The word "adverse" in the passage is closest in meaning toA) harmfulB) continuousC) strongD) excessive10. What point does paragraph 6 make about the individuals that survive a particular natural disaster?A) They were the small number of organisms that happened to be well-adapted to survive that kind of natural disaster.B) Their descendants will likely be shaped by natural selection to evolve genes that will make them fit to survive the next natural disaster.C) Their survival may have been due to chance, but fitness also contributes to their survival over time.D) They will probably have comparatively weak offspring because the natural disaster eliminated the individuals that had more favorable gene combinations.11. According to paragraph 6, environmental forces limit the power of natural selection in which of the following way?A) They change the reproductive process in significant ways.B) They destroy potentially favorable gene combinations before they can be selected.C) They interfere with the transmission of chromosomes from parent to offspring.D) They weaken the ability of individuals to maintain high fitness levels.12. The word "indiscriminate" in the passage is closest in meaning toA) dangerousB) randomC) commonD) power13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.New models of the genotype depict a much more complicated relationship among genes.Where does the sentence best fit?14. Prose SummaryGenetics and environmental factors often prevent organisms from achieving evolutionary perfection.Answer Choices:A) Darwin first challenged the idea of evolutionary progress by observing that more than 99.9 percent of all evolutionary lines that once existed on Earth have become extinct.B) The development of vertebrates and anthropods from a single ancestor demonstrates the power of the environment to limit natural selection.C) A single adaptation to an organism's environment may determine the way in which the organism's subsequent ancestors are able to evolve.D) A single structure or gene in an organism cannot respond to the forces of natural selection without affecting the functioning of other structures or genes.E) The structure of the genotype itself restricts natural selection, since genes must line up like pearls on a necklace and cannot be moved out of their proper order.F) Both environmental and genetic chance may prevent even the fittest organisms from surviving and reproducing.