1. The word "aggregate" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) collection  B) part  C) growth  D) instrument2. In stating that the many hexagonal lenses of a compound eye are "transparent" , the author means that  A) images can be seen through them without obstruction  B) they are connected in a complex way  C) they are very small  D) they are all identical3. According to paragraph 1, compound eyes are particularly good for  A) perceiving slight changes in light  B) resolving form and detail  C) providing a broad field of vision  D) detecting motion4. Which of the following can be inferred from paragraph 1 about female fireflies?  A) They have sharper vision than dragonflies.  B) They can see more details than male fireflies can.  C) They do not need to see as well as male fireflies in order to find food or mates.  D) They are more active at an earlier stage of life than as adults.5. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.  A) Butterflies and hummingbirds are attracted to red flowers, but most other birds and insects prefer a range of different colors.  B) Aside from butterflies, few insects can see red well, but most insects can see colors in the near ultraviolet range.  C) With some exceptions, humans are more like birds than like insects in terms of the way they see colors.  D) Humans and birds are generally able to see more shades of color than most insects can.6. The word "cluster" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) layer  B) presence  C) system  D) group7. According to paragraph 3, which of the following does NOT describe simple eyes?  A) They are made up of a number of light-sensitive elements and one lens.  B) They occur in insects that lack compound eyes.  C) They cannot form clear images.  D) They can easily detect dim light.8. When the author says that the antennae of insects are "many-segmented," he means that they  A) have a variety of functions  B) are capable of a range of movements  C) are responsive to touch  D) are divided into several parts9. According to paragraph 4, which of the following is true of insects and their antennae?  A) Some insects do not develop antennae until the adult stage of life.  B) Insects may have more than one pair of antennae.  C) The sensory function of antennae in insects varies according to species.  D) The function of antennae is partly determined by where they are located on an insect's head.10. In paragraph 4, the author describes the antennae of blow flies in order to  A) provide an example of how the shape of an antennae may be related to its function  B) emphasize that the main function of antennae for flying insects is to provide information about wind speed  C) provide evidence that insects have sophisticated central nervous systems  D) illustrate how a single pair of antennae can fulfill multiple functions11. Paragraph 5 answers which of the following questions?  A) How do male saturniid moths use their antennae in mating?  B) When are female saturniid moths most likely to emit pheromones?  C) What characteristics of male mosquitoes attract female mosquitoes?  D) At what distance can male mosquitoes detect the vibrations of the beating wings of female mosquitoes?12. Why does the author mention the effect of a tuning fork on caged mosquitoes in paragraph 5?  A) To compare the sound-processing capacities of insects and humans  B) To explain that man-made instruments can cause the release of chemical signals in insects  C) To describe the exact pitch of a mosquito's wingbeat  D) To emphasize the responsiveness of male mosquitoes to sound waves produced by the beating wings of females13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   That simple eyes play this role has been confirmed by experimental studies.   Where would the sentence best fit?14.Prose Summary  Insects have unique sensory organs which provide them with information about the world.  Answer Choices:  A) The compound eyes of insects are made up of numerous independent visual units that each contain their own lens and provide greater visual clarity as they increase in number.  B) The number of visual units in insects depends mainly on the insect species, for example, winged insects have many more visual units than unwinged insects since flying requires more precise vision.  C) Many insects have simple eyes that exist along with compound eyes and sometimes have the function of regulating activity cycles by detecting changes in light.  D) Insects see more colors than birds do since insects must be able to detect the wide range of colors in the nectar-producing flowers which provide them with food.  E) Antennae are important sensory organs that perform different tasks in different insects, including the assessment of air movement and temperature, as well as sensitivity to sound and touch.  F) The antennae of male moths and mosquitoes are responsive to the sound signals of females during the period of mating but are less responsive during other kinds of activity