1.	What aspect of eighteenth-century England does the professor mainly discuss?
A.	The difficulty of integrating Aristotle's philosophy into the classroom
B.	Why certain children's books became best sellers and others did not
C.	Two competing philosophies about early childhood education
D.	Important ideas behind the emergence of children's literature

2.	What point is the professor making when she mentions Barbara Follett's book The House Without Windows?
A.	The House Without Windows was the first English book to be regarded as children's literature.
B.	Children's literature has been defined in a variety of ways.
 
C.	The most effective children's books include colorful illustrations.
D.	Children tend to dislike stories that teach moral lessons.

3.	What fundamental idea about childhood did John Locke promote?
A.	Children acquire their ideas primarily through appropriate experiences.
B.	Children best learn moral lessons through memorization.
C.	Children learn about the world by writing their own books.
D.	Children should both attend school and work to help support their family.

4.	What point does the professor make when she mentions the Greek philosopher Aristotle?
A.	Locke's ideas about educating children were not as well accepted as Aristotle's were.
B.	Aristotle and Locke had fundamentally different ideas about how children should be taught to read.
C.	Aristotle and Locke both benefited from a rigorous education in early childhood.
D.	Locke's ideas about educating children were not entirely his own.

5.	What was Locke's opinion about fairy tales?
A.	They contain valuable lessons about morality and social etiquette.
B.	They are ideal tools for motivating children to read.
C.	They have a largely negative impact on children.
D.	They are more interesting to adults than to children.

6.	What was the main message of John Newbery's first successful children's book?
A.	Share what you have with others.
B.	Study hard to ensure your financial success.
C.	Choose your friends very carefully.
D.	Do not be afraid to express your opinions.
