1.	What does the professor mainly discuss?
A.	New evidence about construction methods used for the Globe Theatre
B.	Evidence used by scholars to determine the shape of the Globe Theatre
C.	The debate over how closely the rebuilt Globe Theatre resembles the original
D.	A controversy over which Shakespearean plays were performed in the Globe Theatre

2.	What does the professor suggest was inconvenient about the Globe Theatre?
A.	Many events occurred there at the same time.
B.	There were no seats for any of the spectators.
C.	Many of the spectators were not protected from rain.
D.	Some spectators could not see the whole stage.

3.	Why does the professor talk about Shakespeare's play Henry V?
A.	To help explain why scholars think it was the first play presented in the Globe Theatre
B.	To help explain why some scholars believe the Globe Theatre was round
C.	To describe how scholars determined when the Globe Theatre was originally built
D.	To describe how difficult it was to perform Shakespeare's plays in the Globe Theatre

4.	What does the professor say in support of the conclusion that the Globe Theatre was NOT round?
A.	Archaeological evidence shows that it had many sides.
B.	An  audience  member  from  Shakespeare's  time  described  it  as  a  many-sided building.
C.	A map showing it as a round building was hand copied from earlier maps.
D.	Round buildings are difficult to construct from wood.

5.	The professor mentions a book on English theater history. What does he imply about the book?
A.	It has been very helpful to scholars.
B.	It should have included drawings.
C.	The drawing it contains is probably inaccurate.
D.	Its author was not an expert on Shakespearean plays.

6.	Why is Hollar's map of London considered more reliable than other maps?
A.	It has accurate drawings of buildings that still stand in London.
B.	It was created by someone who lived in London his whole life.
C.	It was created more recently than other maps.
D.	It has been better preserved than other maps.
