1.	What is the main purpose of the lecture?
A.	To broaden students' understanding of an astronomical concept
B.	To discuss the significance of some constellations to ancient cultures
C.	To introduce students to a recent decision the IAU made
D.	To examine the controversy over the exact number of constellations

2.	Why does the student mention Orion?
A.	To explain how she became interested in astronomy
B.	To point out that the pattern of stars in a constellation can be difficult to identify
C.	To give an example of a constellation named after a mythological figure
D.	To ask a question about the names of constellations

3.	According to the professor, what used to be a problem for astronomers when a new star was discovered?
A.	Determining whether the new star could be part of an asterism
B.	Ranking the new star's importance among the stars that are visible through telescopes
C.	Describing the new star's location so that other astronomers could find it
D.	Convincing the International Astronomical Union to accept the name proposed for the new star

4.	According to the professor, what were the accomplishments of the International Astronomical Union in the 1920s?	Click on 2 answers.
A.	Assigning scientific names to the traditional constellations
B.	Determining the approximate number of stars in each constellation
C.	Deciding which star configurations should be considered constellations
D.	Dividing the night sky into well-defined regions

5.	What is the professor's attitude when he mentions the IAU's decision about the Big Dipper?
A.	He is unsure why the Big Dipper received more attention than it deserves.
B.	He is disappointed that the Big Dipper was classified as an asterism.
C.	He regrets that the decision has created confusion within the field of astronomy.
D.	He is gratified that the IAU is willing to reconsider its decision.

6.	What does the professor imply about the Big Dipper? Click on 2 answers.
A.	It got its name at the same time as Ursa Major did.
B.	It is the most visible part of Ursa Major.
C.	It is part of the smallest constellation.
D.	It can point the way to an important star.
