1.In paragraph 1, why does the author mention that most Greek and Roman settlements were laid out on the grid system A. To show how they resembled one another in terms of their layout B. To support the claim that city planning had a long history in Europe C. To help explain why cities of Renaissance and Baroque design were typically laid out in the form of a grid D. To contrast the sophistication of Greek and Roman urban design with the simplicity of the urban design of the Renaissance and Baroque periods 2.The word regimes in the passage is closest in meaning to A. cities B. builders  C. governments D. planners 3.According to paragraph 1, an important goal of Renaissance urban design was to A. serve as an expression of the wealth and power of the ruling class B. improve the classical forms of ancient Greek and Roman cities C. show that the state rather than the church was the most powerful institution in a city D. restore the religious and civic buildings of a city to their previous glory 4.Paragraph 2 supports the idea that important features typical of Renaissance urban design resulted from A. Renaissance designers' improved understanding of geometry B. the characteristics of new weaponry C. an increased interest in highly productive gardens D. the need to reduce the likelihood of fires 5.The phrase a surge of is closest in meaning to A. a combination of B. an altered approach to C. a sudden increase in D. a return to 6.Paragraph 3 mentions each of the following as an accomplishment of Haussmann's redevelopment of Paris EXCEPT A. improving the flow of traffic B. making it harder for revolutionaries to be effective C. improving housing in large sections of old Paris D. bringing more fresh air and sunlight into the city 7.The word synthesizing in the passage is closest in meaning to A. combining B. simplifying C. using D. copying 8.According to paragraph 4, what was an advantage of the Beaux Arts style A. It was especially well suited for industrial buildings. B. B. It fit in well with important older buildings in European cities. C. It could be easily copied by builders everywhere. D. It allowed new buildings to be constructed much more efficiently. 9.According to paragraph 5, Modernist urban design differed from previous urban design styles in that it A. meant to contribute to a new moral and social order B. was heavily influenced by the work of one urban planner C. was a reaction to social and economic changes D. was intended to make cities more beautiful 10.The word elevated in the passage is closest in meaning to A. raised B. imagined C. separated D. designed 11..Paragraph 5 supports the idea that Le Corbusier held which of the following views A. Industrial production techniques should be used only for buildings in industrial districts. B. Different types of activities that go on in a city should be kept physically separated from each other. C. All the buildings in a city should be about the same height and of similar design. D. Major transportation routes should be kept at a significant distance from cities. 12.According to paragraph 6, the International Style became widespread partly because A. it was a style that combined many traditional national styles B. it was a style that emerged independently in city after city C. building in that style tended to produce uniform results D. building in that style tended to cost less13.Look at the four squares that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.This mechanical analogy was a significant departure from earlier attitudes that emphasized the civilizing influence of cities and their buildings. 14.Drag your choices to the spaces where they belong. To review the passage, click on View Text. Answer Choices A. Beginning in fifteenth-century Italy, advances in weaponry led to the redesign of cities, and a new aesthetic of grand design inspired by classical art forms took hold. B. The walls and open spaces typical of Renaissance urban design were re-discovered in the early twentieth century and became a major component of the Modern movement. C. The social changes brought about by the transition to industrial capitalism placed new demands on urban planners that could only be met by adopting new design styles. D. The redevelopment of Paris in the mid-1800s displayed a new idea of urban designto make cities orderly, efficient, and healthier and to positively reflect the new social and economic order. E. The goal of Beaux Arts style architects was to replace the older palaces, cathedrals, and civic buildings that dominated European cities with modern buildings. F. The twentieth-century International Style's boxlike steel, glass, and concrete buildings arose from the Modernist view that buildings and cities should be designed and run like machines. 