1.According to paragraph 1, which of the following is true of sociality among animal species A. Sociality is much more common among invertebrates than among vertebrates. B. Very few animals are considered social because most spend the majority of their lives alone. C. An animal group must contain more than one family unit for the species to be considered social. D. All animals that rear their young are considered to be social. 2.Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information. A. Group living allows some animals to transcend problems of habitat. B. Group living is only advantageous when benefits outweigh inevitable problems. C. Problems resulting from living socially extend beyond the habitat. D. It is difficult to determine whether the benefits of social living offset its costs. 3.What does paragraph 3 say about the relationship between natural selection and animals that live apart from other members of their species A. Natural selection does not favor living apart because individuals are unable to obtain resources equal to those of group members. B. Natural selection does not favor living apart because of the intense competition for resources among individuals apart from a group. C. Natural selection favors living apart because individuals are unlikely to attract the attention of predators. D. Natural selection favors living apart because group living increases competition for limited resources of food and nesting sites. 4.The word devastate in the passage is closest in meaning to A. Alter B. spread to C. destroy D. involve 5.In paragraph 3, why does the author mention distemper and its effect on seals A. To explain why sociality is now relatively rare in seals B. To prove that parasites prevent animals from growing healthy and strong C. To show how easily social animals transmit potentially deadly diseases D. To provide an example of a species-specific disease that affects solitary animals 6.The word simultaneously in the passage is closest in meaning to A. at the same time B. in the same way C. for the same reason D. on the same scale 7.The word unintentional in the passage is closest in meaning to A. unsuccessful 
B. unplanned 
C. inaccurate 
D. impractical 8.According to paragraph 4, how do lions increase their chances of successfully hunting wildebeest A. They work together as a team to chase and capture the animals. B. They wait until groups of the animals come close to their hiding place. C. They follow and catch the animals that are operating alone. D. They focus on the smallest members of the species. 9.Which of the following can be inferred from paragraph 4 about how bank swallows find food cooperatively A. They give special favors to members of their community that have been successful foragers. B. They use special calls and signals to indicate to other swallows where food is located. C. They observe the direction a successful forager took to locate prey. D. They locate concentrations of prey by setting off in different directions. 10.The word alternate in the passage is closest in meaning to A. make a habit of B. have conflicts over C. show a preference for D. take turns at 11.According to paragraph 5, how does cooperation help gazelles avoid predation A. The herd forms a defensive circle around the weakest members of the group. B. Because they share food, all of the animals are well nourished and ready to run. C. The herd makes a lot of noise, which scares off predators. D. Some animals watch for danger while others concentrate on feeding. 12.Which of the following can be inferred from paragraph 6 about termites A. They are the only insect species whose members are all social. B. They have smaller communities than hymenopterans. C. They are more independent than hymenopterans. D. They have to live together to pass on digestive bacteria to their young. 13.Drag your choices to the spaces where they belong. To review the passage, click on View Text .

Answer Choices A. Because birds and mammals engage in courting, mating, and establishing year-round family groups to rear young, they are most likely to be social species. B. Living in communities presents disadvantages, such as the competition for resources and the easy transmission of diseases. C. Some social animals obtain food through cooperation and share food and information about food sources with each other. D. Some entire species of social animals have become extinct because of disease epidemics. E. Social animals help each other watch for danger more effectively, and some species work together to combat predators. F. Although some species of ants, bees, and wasps are famous for their sociality, most social insects are not hymenopterans. 