1. According to paragraph 1, what was one way in which oxen were less desirable as a source of power than horses were?  A) Oxen have a relatively bony spine.  B) Oxen had to be used as side-by-side pairs.  C) Oxen more quickly been too tired to work.  D) Oxen had to be harnessed using a wooden yoke.2. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.  A) An important respect in which horses differ from oxen is that horses have a much longer, more easily constricted neck.  B) The fact that a rigid yoke does not work the same way on horses as on oxen makes it obvious that the two animals are very different.  C) The rigid ox yoke worked effectively only on those oxen that had shorter necks than horses.  D) The rigid ox yoke would not work effectively on horses became of the physical differences in the necks of the two animals.3. The word "potentially" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) quickly  B) accidentally  C) possibly  D) essentially4. The word "depiction" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) recognition  B) illustration  C) benefit  D) product5. According to paragraph 2, what was a major advantage of the new horse collar?  A) It allowed the collar straps to shift position as the horse moved.  B) It could be used effectively both for oxen and for horses.  C) It enabled horses to breathe freely while pulling a heavy object.  D) It rested on the horse’s neck rather than on its shoulders.6. Paragraph 2 supports which of the following statements about the horse collar introduced into Europe in the eighth century?  A) Its images appeared right after it was introduced in the eighth century.  B) Its images encouraged farmers to make similar innovations across Europe.  C) It was improved during the eleventh century.  D) It helped popularize the use of horses as farm animals.7. According to paragraph 3, there is some disagreement among historians about whether the technology for shoeing horses was  A) available during the period of the Roman Empire  B) developed during the period of the Roman Empire  C) practiced in the early medieval period  D) widespread during the late medieval period8. The phrase "proliferation of" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) change in  B) increase in  C) improvement in  D) interests in9. The phrase "attributed to" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) modified by  B) credited to  C) encouraged by  D) introduced by10. In paragraph 4, why does the author include the information that the use of hard-packed roads began to appear in some areas?  A) To help explain the expansion of horseshoe use during the tenth and eleventh centuries  B) To explain why people began to rely more heavily on transportation involving horsepower during the tenth and eleventh centuries  C) To support the idea that, during the tenth and eleventh centuries, horses often had to deal with rocky or uneven surfaces  D) To point out one important effect of the need to care for the hooves of horses during the tenth and eleventh centuries11. According to paragraph 4, horseshoes provided all of the following advantages EXCEPT  A) protecting horses’ hooves from wear and tear  B) giving horses a way to help themselves move forward  C) enabling horses to carry far greater loads  D) eliminating the need for horses to dig in their hooves12. According to paragraph 5, why were horseshoes particularly important in northern Europe?   A) Because the climate of northern Europe was damaging to the hooves of horses   B) Because the farmlands of northern Europe tended to be particularly soft   C) Because the farmlands of northern Europe were more fully cultivated than those elsewhere   D) Because the climates in northern Europe were far more varied than climates elsewhere13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   Using horses for farming, however, required developing the right harness.   Where would the sentence best fit?14. Prose summary   Although oxen were used as a power source as early as 3000 to 4000 B.C., horses did not become important in farming until much later.   Answer Choices:   A) Since ancient times, oxen had been used by farmers primarily in teams of two animals, with each animal harnessed to one of the two shafts that were attached, one on each side, to a wagon or a plow.   B) Horses can work significantly longer than oxen can, but horses could not be used effectively for farm work using the simple, traditional throat-and-girth harness that had served well for oxen.   C) In the eighth century in Europe, a new horse collar began to be used that made it possible for a horse to pull a plow or other heavy load by encircling the horse’s shoulders rather than its neck.   D) Horseshoes came into increasing use during the medieval period because they allowed horses to walk more effectively while experiencing fewer injuries on hard farmlands and roads.   E) In areas where commercial transportation came to rely heavily on horsepower, profit motivated people to maintain hard-packed roads that were suitable for horses carrying heavy goods to market.   F) Because European climates vary, a wide variety of horseshoes were developed, some designed for cultivating soft farmland and others for areas where dampness posed a threat to hooves.