1. The word "integrating" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) adjusting  B) determining  C) coordinating  D) performing2. According to paragraph 1, why is the cerebrum considered a lateralized organ?  A) Its halves are connected by a band of fibers called the corpus callosum.  B) Each hemisphere of the brain is totally independent of the other.  C) Different sides of the brain are responsible for different functions.  D) It creates a preference for using one side of the body more than the other.3. According to paragraph 1, which of the following is true of the corpus callosum?  A) It controls both sides of the body.  B) It connects the two hemispheres of the cerebrum.  C) It determines which side of the body is preferred.  D) It allows each hemisphere to operate independently of the other.4. The word "assume" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) prefer  B) take on  C) recognize  D) separate5. According to paragraph 2, research shows that about two-thirds of all fetuses  A) have a left hemisphere advantage because of their position in the womb  B) depend on the right hemisphere to process language  C) change the left hemisphere to the right and the right to the left  D) have a brain that does not become fully lateralized until adolescence6. The author includes the information that "most newborns turn to the right rather than to the left when they lie on their back" in order to  A) support the claim that brain lateralization is already evidence at birth  B) show that position in the womb affects babies' preferred position after birth  C) explain why there is more electrical activity in the left side of the cerebral cortex than in the right side  D) provide an example of a behavior that may encourage brain lateralization7. The author cites a study in which "preschoolers and adolescents were asked to pick up a crayon, kick a ball, look into a bottle, and place their ear to a box to hear a sound" in order to  A) reject the claim that left- or right-handedness is apparent early in life  B) argue that both children and adolescents use different sides of the body to perform different types of tasks  C) provide evidence that, as they age, children develop a stronger reliance on one hemisphere over the other  D) provide examples of tasks that become easier as the brain becomes more specialized8. The fact that most adolescents showed a "consistent" lateral preference means that  A) the lateral preferences of most adolescents were stronger than those of preschoolers  B) the lateral preferences of most adolescents were different from those of preschoolers  C) the lateral preferences of most adolescents were for the left side of the body  D) the lateral preferences of most adolescents were the same each time they performed a task9. According to paragraph 3, what is the relationship between cerebral lateralization and the brain's ability to recover from injury?  A) The dominant side of a lateralized brain heals more quickly than the less preferred side heals.  B) After cerebral lateralization is complete, the functions of injured neural circuits are almost always performed by other circuits in the same hemisphere.  C) A brain that is damaged before lateralization is complete will probably lose more functionality than a brain that has already lateralized.  D) It is unlikely that a mature brain will fully recover once cerebral lateralization is complete.10. The word "implications" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) consequences  B) solutions  C) conditions  D) reasons11. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.  A) Research suggests that as many as 5 percent of schoolchildren in the United States may be affected by a reading disorder known as dyslexia.  B) Abnormal visual/spatial functions may affect up to 5 percent of the schoolchildren in the United States who have trouble reading.  C) Children with serious impairments in their ability to read often have dyslexia or some other abnormal pattern of cerebral lateralization.  D) Irregularities in cerebral lateralization have also been found among children with dyslexia, a relatively serious reading disorder.12. Which of the following can be inferred from the description of Leslie Tan's research in paragraph 4?  A) Children who have not established a dominant hand by the age of four are equally likely to eventually be left-handed or right-handed.  B) Not establishing a dominant hand by age four is an indication of incomplete motor development.  C) It takes longer for children to become right-handed than to become left-handed.  D) Delaying the establishment of a dominant hand can increase coordination.13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   This makes some sense since the majority of adults are also right-handed.   Where would the sentence best fit?14. Prose summary   The highest brain center in humans consists to two cerebral hemispheres connected by a band of fibers   Answer Choices:   A) The role of the corpus callosum is to separate the functions of the two hemispheres to allow them to function more efficiently.   B) Right handed individuals are advantaged for language and left-handed individuals are advantaged for music.   C) Brain lateralization is present at birth, with different functions and different sides of the body controlled by each hemisphere.   D) Lateral preferences become stronger over time as the brain matures, but younger, less specialized brains recover better from injuries.   E) About 90 percent of people maintain a consistent preference for the same hand throughout childhood, but the other 10 percent never develop a preference.   F) Incomplete or irregular lateralization has been linked to development delays and reading difficulties.