1. The word “presumably” in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) partially  B) sufficiently  C) safely  D) most likely2. The phrase “were persistently viewed” in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) were sometimes viewed  B) continued to be viewed  C) were increasingly viewed  D) began to be viewed3. According to paragraph 1, all of the following were generally believed about sauropods EXCEPT:  A) Their bodies were too heavy for their legs to support them on dry land.  B) Their long tails helped them to swim.  C) They used their legs for support only when they were almost entirely submerged.  D) They could breathe with only their nostrils above water.4. According to paragraph 1, in 1904 E. S. Riggs argued that sauropods  A) had a fully aquatic existence  B) kept their nostrils out of the water at all times  C) submerged themselves only when hiding  D) lived on land rather than in the water5. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.  A) It is hard to say how sauropods breathed while they were submerged because there are no vertebrates today that breathe at the same rate.  B) Once sauropods forced air from their lungs, pushing it out against the considerable pressure of the water, it is hard to imagine how they had strength to move underwater.  C) The sauropod’s lungs expanded under water in order to oppose the pressure from the surrounding water.  D) It is not clear that submerged sauropods could have breathed, since they would have had to overcome a pressure on the lungs greater than that encountered by any vertebrate today.6. The word “hence” in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) therefore  B) also  C) even  D) probably7. In paragraph 2, why does the author remark “Unless sauropods had exceedingly powerful chest muscles”?  A) To explain how sauropods were able to survive the intense water pressure when submerged  B) To argue that aquatic sauropods must have had powerful chest muscles  C) To emphasize the unlikely conclusion under which sauropods could have breathed while submerged  D) To distinguish the requirements for breathing in while underwater from the requirements for breathing out while underwater8. According to paragraph 3, Bakker’s research supports which of the following statements about sauropods?  A) Their legs could support the full weight of their bodies.  B) They had a thorax more like that of a rhinoceros than that of an elephant.  C) They used their sturdy, pillar-like legs to climb out of the water.  D) They easily made the transition from underwater to terrestrial habits.9. The word “inviting” in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) assuming  B) strengthening  C) encouraging  D) emphasizing10. What does the author mean by “again” in the remark “again indicating that they generally browsed for vegetation within 2 or 3 meters of the ground”?  A) The computer models gave the same results about Diplodocus and Apatosaurus each time they were run.  B) The computer models showed that Diplodocus and Apatosaurus were like Cetiosaurus in having a limited range of motion in the neck.  C) The computer models showed that the neck vertebrae of Diplodocus and Apatosaurus were similar to the neck vertebrae of Brachiosaurus.  D) The computer models confirmed that sauropods had the same limited neck movements as giraffes.11.Paragraph 4 implies that Brachiosaurus differed from Cetiosaurus in which of the following respect?   A) It could raise its neck higher.   B) It was a plant eater.   C) Its neck was longer   D) It did not use its long neck to keep its head above water.12. According to paragraph 4, part of the reason it is unclear why sauropods had such long necks is that   A) the research by Martin and by Stevens and Parrish arrive at different conclusions about sauropods’ ability to flex their necks   B) some sauropods did not have the range of motion in their necks that was needed to reach tall trees   C) dinosaurs other than sauropods did not have such long necks   D) in general, researchers have only computer models of sauropod necks, not actual skeletons13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   Obviously, this would be fatal if the sauropod could not quickly refill its lungs with air.   Where would the sentence best fit?14. Prose summary   The sauropod dinosaurs had a long neck and tail and were the largest animals ever to live on land.   Answer Choices:   A) The function of sauropods’ long necks is not clear; in particular, sauropod species could not in general use their necks to feed like giraffes on treetops.   B) Until the 1950s, sauropods were generally thought to have been aquatic animals that spent much of their time with only their heads above water.   C) The ability of sauropods to move around both in water and on land caused early researchers to classify them as alligators.   D) Because sauropods have a slab-sided thorax, Robert Bakker, and K. A. Kermack argued that sauropods would not have been able to expand their lungs when they were submerged.   E) Computer models of the vertebrae of sauropod necks show that probably only Brachiosaurus was able to raise its neck about 2 or 3 meters.   F) In view of arguments that sauropods had legs that could support their weight and probably could not have breathed with their bodies submerged, it is now accepted that sauropods were land dwellers.