1.	What is the main purpose of the lecture?
A.	To describe some methods and findings of ocean-acoustics research
B.	To compare whale songs with other underwater sounds
C.	To present evidence that climate change is affecting Antarctic ice
D.	To introduce students to the work of a leading ocean-acoustics researcher

2.	How does the professor organize the lecture?
A.	By describing a relatively new scientific discipline, then explaining how it began
B.	By describing deep-sea biological sounds, then comparing them with geological sounds
C.	By   describing   some   deep-sea   sounds,   then   discussing   the   challenge   of identifying their source
D.	By defining interdisciplinary research, then giving an extended example of how it works

3.	According to the professor, what does Christopher Fox believe is the likely source of Slowdown?
A.	Airplanes flying low over the ocean
B.	A volcano on the ocean floor
C.	Groups of whales migrating
D.	Ice slipping across land

4.	What  does  the  professor  think  may  be  an  important  use  of  ocean-acoustics research?
A.	It may help researchers identify mysterious sounds in other environments.
B.	It may provide new information about climate change.
C.	It may reveal a relationship between earthquakes and underwater volcanoes.
D.	It may help biologists track whales' migration routes.

5.	How do scientists make it possible to hear sounds from the deep sea?
A.	By eliminating all low-frequency sounds from undersea recordings
B.	By combining recordings made underwater with recordings made above the water surface
C.	By making a recording in which nothing can be heard, then speeding up the recording
D.	By using a seismometer to identify the sound's location, then placing a hydrophone there

6.	What is similar about Upsweep and Bloop?
A.	Both vary in frequency from season to season.
B.	Both are audible over long distances.
C.	Both are made by sea animals.
D.	Both are made by geologic forces near islands.
