#article
Tutorials Discontinued for Engineering Students

The department of engineering plans to discontinue tutorials for first-year engineering students next year. Currently, students who are interested in getting assistance with their engineering coursework sign up for a tutorial. Upper-level students then sign up as volunteers to tutor groups of students. The department cites a lack of volunteer tutors as the primary reason for closing the tutorial program. A department representative also noted that, “There is no clear evidence that the tutorials help improve learning overall.”


#record
Now listen as two engineering students discuss the article.

(man) Are you as shocked as I am that they’re gonna drop this program?
(woman) I am, but, if they can’t find any volunteers to help out,
(man) Well, if they really can’t find enough upper-level students, why not open it up to Ph.D. students?
(woman) Ph.D. students? Really? You think they’d do it?
(man) Why not? It wouldn’t take that much of their time.
(woman) True
(man) Or, better yet, why not just make it a requirement for all Ph.D. students in engineering, you know, they’d have to volunteer to tutor at least once a semester or something like that.
(woman) Great idea! And a Ph.D. student would definitely be the most knowledgeable people to explain the material.
(man) Exactly! And you know, I don’t see where they got this idea that the program wasn’t working. I used it a few times and, personally, it really helped me a lot when I first started taking engineering classes.
(woman) Me too, especially with some of the reading assignment.
(man) I know. I think that’s why most people sign up: to get a better understanding of the textbook, of the reading assignments. It helps a lot, especially before a big test or something.
(woman) Exactly!

#question
The students express their opinion about the engineering department’s plan. Briefly summarize the plan. Then state their opinion about the plan and the reasons they give for holding that opinion.
