#article
Vigilance

In their natural habitat, animals must always be aware of their surroundings. For their safety, animals periodically watch, or scan and inspect, their environment for predators. Engaging in this practice, known as vigilance, is time-consuming for animals and prevents them from spending as much time engaging in other activities. However, for animals that live in social groups, the need for vigilance is reduced when they are with other animals of their species.  Since there are more animals, each of them needs to spend less time scanning for predators. Thus, when animals are with others of their species, they are able to spend more time engaged in other activities.

#record

Now listen to part of a lecture on this topic in a Biology class.

(male professor) OK, so here’s a good example of this. In the forest in Central America, there’s a type of monkey, the black howler monkey, and these monkeys live up high up on the trees, in the treetops where their furry black bodies really stand out among the green leaves, so this makes it easy for predators, like eagles, to spot them from faraway. And then, you know, swoop down from the sky and attack them.

So, when a black howler monkey in up in a tree all by itself, collecting leaves and fruit to eat itself, it needs to constantly interrupt its food search in order to stop and look up into the sky to see if an eagle is coming. Being alone makes it very vulnerable to attack, so it needs to keep a lookout and constantly watch the sky.

But when these monkeys search for leaves and fruit with other monkeys, they are all in the same tree, together at the same time. And when this happens, it’s been observed that they don’t stop their food-gathering as frequently to look up into the sky for eagles. Because there are a lot of monkeys, each individual doesn’t need to constantly stop to look for eagles all the time. They can keep gathering food while another monkey watches the sky. So, if a predator does come, he can warn everybody. And so, in this way, the monkeys are able to collect more leaves and fruit more quickly than when food gathering by themselves.

#question
Explain how the example of the black howler monkey illustrates the concept of vigilance.
