#record
Listen to part of a talk in a Business class.

(female professor) We’ve been talking about how businesses develop loyal customers, which, of course, is a primary goal of most businesses. Businesses need clients who will return to their business again and again, so businesses work to establish bonds or connections with them. When customers feel connected to a business, they’ll be less likely to switch to another business. So, let’s talk about a couple of different types of bonds that businesses build.

When customers feel a person-to-person connection with an individual at a business, they’re more likely to return to that business. Because of this, businesses often try to build social bonds with customers. Social bonds form when employees connect with customers on an individual level. For example, when a new client visits a hair salon, the stylist, the salon employee who is doing the client’s hair, will be friendly and they hold a conversation with the client, asking about his or her interest. So, by the time such clients leave the salon, they may feel as if they have a friendly personal relationship with their stylists. And they’ll probably return there for the next haircut.

Some companies establish financial bonds with their customers. A financial bond is created when products or services are offered with a discount, or another type of cost benefit. Companies will extend these benefits so their customers will want to continue obtaining products or services only from them. So, for instance, let’s imagine an office supply company that serves businesses. This company knows that businesses, of course, need printer paper, paper clips, and dozens of other items regularly. So, the office supply company may give any business that agrees to submit an order every month a ten percent discount on their order. As long as an order for supply is submitted monthly, ten percent will be deducted from the business’ bill.

#question
Using points and examples from the professor’s talk, explain why and how businesses establish bonds with their customers.



