1. The word "expended" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) saved  B) produced  C) needed   D) used2. According to paragraph 1, all of the following help small mammals avoid detection by predators EXCEPT  A) going to a place they cannot be seen  B) searching for food under the ground surface  C) having coat colors that make it difficult to be noticed  D) focusing on a small number of food types3. Based on paragraph 1, which of the following can be inferred about the predators of small mammals?  A) Land predators catch small mammals more effectively during the day than at night.  B) Flying predators can easily spot small mammals moving below the leaf litter.  C) Land predators are the main source of pressure on the small mammal population.  D) Flying predators are especially well suited to catching small mammals beneath the snow.4. The word "fluctuating" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) low  B) varying  C) harmful  D) uncomfortable5. It can be inferred from paragraph 2 that small mammals  A) have greater need to conserve energy by reducing conductive heat loss than large mammals do  B) are able to conserve body heat more easily than large mammals  C) have less risk from very low temperatures than large mammals do  D) are incapable of adapting to change in their environment6. According to paragraph 2, all of the following contribute to the capacity of small mammals to adapt to and cope with habitat changes EXCEPT  A) producing high numbers of young  B) being able to change the genetic composition of the population quickly  C) having the capacity to maintain a constant body temperature in above-ground habitats  D) having short generation times7. The word "constraints" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) differences  B) flaws  C) limitations  D) risks8. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.  A) For the majority of small mammals, short life spans mean that the young have time to learn only a few simple behaviors from adults.  B) For the majority of small mammals, searching for food and advoiding predators are important examples of behaviors that have to be learned from adults.  C) The short lives of most small mammals limit opportunities for their young to refine important behaviors that are learned from adults.  D) In order to learn crucial behaviors during their short life spans, most small mammals require socialization by adults.9. In paragraph 3, why does the author mention Brandt’s bats?  A) To argue that the life spans of different mammals are unrelated to their size  B) To provide an exception to the rule that small mammals generally have short lives  C) To emphasize the varying life spans of most small mammals  D) To show that some small mammals provide their young with a high degree of socialization10. According to paragraph 4, which of the following statements about the therapids is true?   A) They first appeared 230 million years ago.   B) They gave rise to small mammals during the Triassic period.   C) They were the earliest mammals.   D) They were dominant during the Cenozoic era.11. According to paragraph 4, which of the following statements about mammals is true?   A) They first appeared at the end of the Cretaceous period.   B) Their rapid evolution of new species at the end of the Cretaceous period led to the near extinction of the ruling reptiles.   C) Most of the orders of mammals currently recognized consist mainly of small mammals.   D) Most of the currently recognized species of mammals weigh less than 5 kilograms.12. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   The amount of food that they eat to meet these needs may seem surprising.   Where would the sentence best fit?