1. According to paragraph 1, which of the following is true of parental care in anuran species?  A) Most anuran species provide a wide variety of parental care.  B) Attendance of eggs laid on land is the most common form of parental care.  C) Tadpoles receive parental care more frequently than young frogs do.  D) Parental care is provided according to the various stages of development of offspring.2. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.  A) A few investigations have been carried out that show the benefits of parental care in amphibians, and presumably parental care increases the survivorship of young frogs in most cases.  B) Presumably parental care benefits the offspring and has costs for the parents, but the costs and benefits are not known for the great majority of frog species.  C) Whether there are costs and benefits of providing parental care is unknown for the vast majority of frog species that provide parental care.  D) Because there have been few investigations of parental care in amphibians, and in frogs in particular, the vast majority of frog species that provide parental care have not been investigated.3. Why does the author mention that in some frog species "Parents may turn the eggs" ?  A) To illustrate a behavior of parent frogs that can prevent damage to eggs from drying out  B) To support the idea that the terrestrial environment is not hospitable to amphibian offspring  C) To give an example of parental care that can increase the survivorship of offspring  D) To explain what happens when a parent releases water onto the eggs4. It can be inferred from paragraph 3 that adult males of some New Guinea frog species help their offspring survive by transporting them to locations where  A) some other animals eat the same foods that the offspring eat  B) the offspring are already familiar with the types of predators around  C) plentiful supplies of water are available  D) few or no other offspring from the same parents live5. According to paragraph 4, what is true about unattended coqui eggs?  A) They usually take more time to hatch.  B) They can be removed easily from sheltered retreats.  C) They can become too dry to survive.  D) They may be eaten by female coquis from other territories.6. According to paragraph 4, all of the following statements are true about the Puerto Rican coqui from EXCEPT:  A) Females lay their eggs within the male's territory.  B) Male coquis move between clutches eggs at different locations.  C) Unattended clutches fail at a higher rate than attended clutches.  D) Male coquis are major predators of other coquis' eggs.7. The word "potential" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) identified  B) possible  C) common  D) obvious8. According to paragraph 5, providing parental care is associated with which of the following?  A) More clutches produced per female  B) Less danger to parents from predators  C) More food needed by caregiving parents  D) Fewer eggs produced per clutch9. According to paragraph 5, what is the relationship between predation and parental care in amphibians?  A) Parental care reliably protects amphibian eggs and young from predators.  B) Parental care could increase the risk of amphibian parents being killed by predators.  C) Parental care prevents amphibian young from developing their own defenses against predators.  D) Parental care results in the development of more effective defense strategies in adult amphibians.10. The word "harsh" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) unpredictable  B) severe  C) unusual  D) disturbed11. The word "appreciably" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) significantly  B) permanently  C) necessarily  D) immediately12. According to paragraph 6, the cost of parental care is minimal in all the following circumstances EXCEPT  A) when nests where care is provided cannot be easily reached by predators  B) when reproductive output is limited by reasons other than by providing parental care  C) when females produce many groups of eggs per season  D) when a male can defend territory and attract additional females when providing care13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.    Caring parents might experience difficulties in different areas of their lives.    Where would the sentence best fit?14. Prose Summary   In amphibians, any type of parental investment in offspring after the eggs have been deposited counts as parental care.   Answer Choices:   A) Among the 10 percent of frog and toad species that provide parental care, there is a great variety of care involving the attending, guarding, and transporting of the eggs or young.   B) The fact that few amphibians provide parental care suggests that the survival and reproductive costs of providing the care generally outweigh the evolutionary benefits of having more young survive.   C) The benefits of parental care have been demonstrated in the case of the attending of eggs by male coqui frogs, but for most species the costs and benefits are unknown.   D) Since amphibian eggs lose water easily and would die if they were to dry out, covering the eggs to protect them is a major form of parental care among land-dwelling frogs.   E) Because the survival rate of young is greater when the eggs and young are cared for, frogs that provide parental care do not need to have large clutches of eggs or to reproduce frequently.   F) Parental care has evolved in those frogs, coqui frogs for example, where there are few vertebrate predators, easily available food, and hiding places that parents can provide the young.