1.The word "mounted" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) appeared  B) became clear  C) was considered  D) grew2. Why does the author point out that "fossils of the extinct reptile Mesosaurus have been found both along the west coast of southern Africa and the east coast of South America" ?  A) To provide an example of the type of evidence Ortelius used to support his theory  B) To explain why the theory of continental drift had become well known in the centuries after Ortelius  C) To imply that Wegener was not a particularly original scientist  D) To provide an example of supporting evidence for the idea that the continents fit together at one time3. The word "collated" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) appreciated  B) explained  C) assembled  D) identified4. Which for the following is mentioned in paragraph 1 as evidence supporting the idea that southern Africa and South America were once joined?  A) The awareness that Earth was no longer stable and unchanging  B) The fact that both southern Africa and South America were once parts of Pangaea  C) The geologic similarity of the opposite coasts of the Atlantic  D) The slow movement of these land areas away from each other5. According to paragraph 1, which of the following was the most important reason why Wegener's ideas were accepted?  A) The coasts of Africa and Europe would fit closely with the Americas on the other side of the Atlantic.  B) Similar coal deposits and geological features were found in Africa and the Americas.  C) Fossils of the extinct reptile Mesosaurus were found in southern Africa and eastern South America  D) The mechanism that had caused the pieces of Pangaea to move apart was discovered.6. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.  A) Earth's largest geological feature remained hidden until it was glimpsed, here and there, beneath the oceans' islands.  B) The mid-ocean mountain range, Earth's largest geological feature, was undiscovered because it is visible only where its peaks appear about the sea surface as islands.  C) The mid-ocean ridge remains unobservable except for brief periods of time when mountains can be glimpsed above the sea's surface.  D) It is now known that Earth's islands are in fact created when the mid-ocean mountain range is so high that it breaks the sea's surface.7. The word "incredibly" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) amazingly  B) probably  C) progressively  D) essentially8. According to paragraph 3, all of the following provided geologists with essential evidence about the widening of the ocean floor in the Atlantic Ocean EXCEPT  A) measurements showing an increase in the distance between the continents on either side of the Atlantic Ocean  B) the comparatively young age of rocks close to the Mid-Atlantic Ridge  C) the increase in sediment with increasing distance from the Mid-Atlantic Ridge  D) the periodic reversal of the magnetic polarity of rocks on the Atlantic sea floor9. The phrase "accounts for" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) involves  B) explains  C) describes  D) confirms10. Which of the following facts about the ocean is directly explained in paragraph 4?   A) Why oceans cover a larger area of Earth's surface than continental crust does   B) Why oceanic crust is denser than continental crust   C) Why oceans form where they do   D) Why oceanic crust is thinner than continental crust11. Paragraph 4 supports which TWO of the following statements about differences between oceanic crust and continental crust? To receive credit, you must select TWO answers.   A) Oceanic crust is denser than continental crust.   B) Oceanic crust is not as thick as continental crust.   C) Oceanic crust contains part of the upper mantle but continental crust does not.   D) Oceanic crust floats in liquid rock but continental crust does not.12. Which of the following questions is NOT answered by paragraph 4?   A) Where is the lithosphere located in relationship to the other layers of Earth?   B) How is it possible for the speed of currents within the fluid rock of the mantle to vary from one location to another?   C) Which type of plate is responsible for continental drift?   D) How many major plates make up the surface of Earth?13.Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   For example, the age of seafloor rock varied in relation to its distance from the ridge.   Where would the sentence best fit?14. Prose Summary   It was noted hundreds of years ago that the complementary shapes of the continents suggest that the continents were once fitted together as a single landmass.   Answer Choices:   A) The shape of the coasts of Africa and Asia proves beyond question that these lands once formed an immense continent, now called Pangaea.   B) In 1912 Alfred Wegener proposed that the continents move, but he could not explain how this movement occurred.   C) Studies of a great mountain range in the Atlantic Ocean prove that the continents of Africa and America are moving apart.   D) Continental drift is caused by the interaction of magnetic particles in the mantle with Earth's reversing magnetic field.   E) Earth's surface is composed of separate rocky plates that float and move in the molten mantle below them.   F) The crust of the continents is both thicker and much more dense than the oceanic crust.