#article
Learning Transfer

When people learn new information or a new skill, their ability to learn is often affected by transfer. Transfer is the influence of prior learning on the ability to acquire new knowledge or perform a new task. This transfer of learning can either help or hinder the efforts of the learner. When prior learning assists in new learning, the effect is known as positive transfer; in contrast, when prior learning interferes with new learning, the effect is known as negative transfer.

#record
Now listen to part of a lecture on this topic in a Psychology class.

(male professor) So, uh, for example, when I was a kid, I took piano lessons. And one of the things I had to learn was to keep my eyes on the sheet music I was reading while at the same time hitting the correct piano keys with my fingers. With practice, I learned to do it. I could read the music and play the piano without looking down at the keys. Then, later, when I was in high school, I took a typing class. One of the goals when you’re typing is not to look down at the keyboard. Well, since I can do that when I play the piano, it was pretty easy for me to keep my eyes on the computer screen as I was typing. I didn’t have to look down at the typewriter keys.

But, sometimes it happens the other way around. For example, I have a friend who’s an actor. When he was in college he studied stage acting, where he acted in place, on a stage, in front of a live audience. For stage acting, he had to learn to talk louder than in real life so the people in the back rows of the theater could hear him. Then, after he graduated, he decided he wanted to become a professional movie actor. So he moved to Los Angeles and took an acting class, a class for actors who wanted to work in the movies. And he said that for the first month the teacher kept telling him, “Not so loud! In movie acting you don’t have to reach the back row of the theater. You’re going to have a very sensitive microphone just a few inches away. Just talk naturally.” So, in a way, my friend’s training for the stage made it harder for him to learn how to act in movies.

#question
Explain positive and negative learning transfer. Use the examples provided by the professor to support your explanation.
