1. What is the lecture mainly about?
  A) George Segal's particular approach to sculpture
  B) George Segal's role in bringing art into public spaces
  C) The different types of plaster that George Segal used in his art
  D) Various interpretations of George Segal's sculpture

2. According to the professor, how did Segal create a context for his plaster sculptures of humans?
  A) By positioning the human sculptures on or near plaster furniture
  B) By drawing large scenes behind the human sculptures
  C) By placing real-life objects next to the human sculptures
  D) By playing a recording of sounds, such as background noise or traffic

3. Why does the professor mention the faces of the sculptures?
  A) To identify the part of the sculpture that Segal typically worked on first
  B) To praise Segal's ability to express emotion through the sculptures' facial expressions
  C) To point out that Segal's friends and neighbors appear in many of his sculptures
  D) To help explain why the sculptures have an anonymous quality

4. What is the professor's attitude toward museum exhibits of Segal's artwork?
  A) He is dissatisfied that museums do not exhibit a broader variety of Segal's work.
  B) He is disappointed that museums do not allow viewers to interact with Segal's sculptures in the way Segal intended.
  C) He is pleased that museum visitors can view Segal's sculptures from all angles.
  D) He is worried that museums provide insufficient protection for Segal's sculptures.

5. Why does the professor mention Segal's piece The Costume Party?
  A) To point out that Segal decided to primarily use white figures in his artwork
  B) To explain why Segal avoided a realistic use of color in his sculptures
  C) To introduce Segal's transition into public art
  D) To identify one of Segal's most famous sculptures

6. According to the professor, what is notable about Segal's later work from the 1970s?
  A) He made art pieces that contained more human figures than his earlier work contained.
  B) He convinced the government to purchase and display his sculptures on public outdoor properties.
  C) He was among the first sculptors in the United States to create gigantic sculptures.
  D) He concentrated on making his sculptures more realistic.