1.What is the main purpose of the lecture?
A)To explain how countries benefit from international transactions
B)To demonstrate the differences between exports and imports
C)To correct a common misconception about international trade
D)To show how international financial markets operate

2.According to the professor, for what purpose do economists use the concept of net exports?
A)To measure imbalances between exports and imports
B)To describe a country's total exports for a year
C)To explain how trade deficits occur
D)To differentiate between exports and trade surplus

3.Why does the professor mention the mercantilists of the 17th and 18th centuries?
A)To explain how the idea of buying stock in companies came about
B)To point out who first identified the need for regulation of international trade
C)To illustrate how international trade expanded to include stocks and bonds
D)To identify the origin of the negative attitude towards trade deficits

4.Why does the professor discuss the purchasing of stocks and bonds?
A)To explain how net exports can become unbalanced
B)To give an example of how capital is exchanged
C)To point out how international transactions are calculated
D)To emphasize that net exports can increase or decrease in value

5.According to the professor, why is it not necessarily bad for countries to run a trade deficit?
A)Countries that run a trade deficit typically have a healthy manufacturing sector.
B)Trade deficits can be offset by the import of capital.
C)Trade deficits can result in an increase in a country's level of employment.
D)Trade deficits can be reduced easily by increasing taxes on imported goods.

6.What point does the professor make about a country's total international transactions?
A)They are a better measure of a country's economic health than trade deficits are.
B)They are only positive when a country exports more goods than it imports.
C)The trade in goods and services is the most important part of international trade.
D)A net export of capital is preferable to a net export of goods and services.
