1. What is the main purpose of the lecture?
  A) To illustrate a concept in architectural sociology
  B) To explain the original uses of front porches in the United States
  C) To describe the relationship between technology and architectural sociology
  D) To show that a sociological term can have more than one definition

2. According to the lecture, what is true about push and pull forces?
  A) They refer only to front porches.
  B) They help explain the decline of the front porch's popularity.
  C) Their combined effects often balance each other out.
  D) They were terms originally used only in architecture.

3. According to the lecture, what were two effects of the automobile's increased popularity? [choose two answers]
  A) Many houses were built without a front porch.
  B) People traveled more on the weekends.
  C) The amount of time people had to socialize with neighbors was reduced.
  D) The time spent sitting on the front porch became less pleasing.

4. What does the professor imply about backyards in the United States?
  A) They can be seen as a pull force.
  B) They are a better place to socialize with neighbors than the front porch.
  C) Their reputation as being safer than front porches is unfounded.
  D) They have always been as popular as front porches.

5. What is the professor's attitude toward the comeback of the front porch?
  A) She believes the attraction of front porches will overcome both push and pull forces.
  B) She is confident that front porches will be used to create strong communities.
  C) She doubts front porches will be used as often as they were in the past.
  D) She is afraid the trend will affect the popularity of backyards.

6. What does the professor imply when she says this:  
  A) She wants the student to continue with his explanation.
  B) She is surprised that the student is familiar with the two terms.
  C) The student is incorrect about pull forces.
  D) The student does not fully understand the concept of push forces.

