1.	What is the main focus of the lecture?
A) The differences between impasto and other texturing techniques
B) The effects artists can achieve using the impasto technique
C) Reasons that the impasto technique remains experimental
D) Changes over time in the way impasto effects are created

2.	Why does the professor mention icing on a cake?
A) To emphasize how easy it is to use the impasto technique
B) To reinforce the claim that impasto involves the application of thin layers of paint
C) To make it clear that impasto can be applied only to a firm surface
D) To describe the type of appearance that impasto gives to a painting

3.	According to the professor, why did 15th century painters use the impasto technique?
A) To ensure that colors would not fade
B) To create deep, mysterious shadows in a painting
C) To give the sense that objects in a painting were reflecting light
D) To give a landscape painting the illusion of distance

4.	Why does the professor show a painting by van Gogh?
A) To explain the origins of the impasto technique
B) To illustrate that impasto is useful for conveying motion
C) To illustrate the effects of a thin layer of impasto
D) To suggest that impasto is more effective in paintings of nature than in portraits

5.	According to the professor, why do some artists use impasto techniques today?
A) They have more choices of tools to create texture than artists did in the past.
B) They want viewers to focus on the surface of a painting.
C) They are interested in recreating painting styles of the past.
D) They can depict modern objects more precisely with impasto than with other techniques.

6.	What does the professor say are two keys to using the impasto technique? [choose two answers]
A) Applying a large amount of paint to a canvas
B) Pressing one layer of paint firmly into a canvas, then spreading more paint over the bottom layer
C) Applying paint to a canvas and then scrubbing it into the canvas
D) Manipulating the paint with quick movements
