1. What is the main purpose of the lecture?
  A) To compare and contrast behaviors of adult and baby birds
  B) To compare the risk levels of different types of instinctive behaviors
  C) To examine a particular instinctive behavior in birds
  D) To examine a recent experiment that helps explain why baby birds beg

2. What point do the speakers make about baby birds in nests on the ground?
  A) They are frequently attacked by predators.
  B) They use silent signals to alert the parent bird that they are hungry.
  C) They are less competitive when begging for food than birds that nest in trees.
  D) They produce sounds that do not travel as far as the sounds of birds that nest in trees.

3. How does the scramble competition hypothesis differ from the honest signaling hypothesis?
  A) According to scramble competition, baby birds will beg when they are not hungry.
  B) According to scramble competition, the smallest babies are the most aggressive.
  C) According to scramble competition, birds will beg even if predators are nearby.
  D) According to scramble competition, the hungriest bird will get the most food.

4. According to the professor, what are the advantages for birds of responding to begging? [choose two answers]
  A) The risk of being attacked by predators decreases.
  B) The chicks of responsive adults grow larger than chicks that are fed randomly.
  C) The chicks of responsive adults are less likely to harm each other.
  D) Responsive adult birds use less energy.

5. Why does the professor mention a research study about robins?
  A) To provide support for the scramble competition hypothesis
  B) To emphasize that each bird species exhibits unique behaviors
  C) To provide an example of a bird that randomly feeds its chicks
  D) To show one way that animals develop beneficial instinctive behavior

6. Why does the professor say this:  
  A) To emphasize the dangers that baby birds face from predators
  B) To express surprise that adult birds can distinguish honest from dishonest signals
  C) To point out the difficulty in determining which of the hypotheses she mentions is correct
  D) To suggest that adult birds are annoyed by the loudest baby birds



