#article
  The Etruscans were an ancient European people who ruled northern Italy for centuries before the Roman Empire. Etruscans were skilled farmers as well as traders and seafarers. There has been a long-standing debate about the origin of the Etruscans. Some scholars believe that the Etruscans arrived in Italy from a region of Turkey, located almost a thousand miles to the east. These scholars cite several pieces of evidence to support the Turkish origin of the Etruscans.
  First, the scholars cite writings of Herodotus, a famous ancient historian who lived during the time of the Etruscans. According to Herodotus, the Etruscans had come from an ancient kingdom located in western Turkey. When the kingdom experienced eighteen years of famine, part of its people decided to leave and look for a new place to settle. Led by the king's son, they left Turkey in ships and eventually reached the coast of Italy, where they founded the Etruscan kingdom.
   Second, the Etruscan language belongs to a family of related languages called Tyrrhenian. Traces of inscriptions in another Tyrrhenian language have been found on an island that is located near Turkey. Since people speaking related languages often come from the same area, the findings of Tyrrhenian inscriptions near Turkey suggest that Etruscans had originally lived in that region.
   Third, the types of cows once bred by Etruscans can still be found in northern Italy today. Genetic analysis of these old Etruscan cow breeds has revealed that they are different from the rest of the cows found in Italy and at the same time closely related to cows traditionally bred in Turkey and surrounding regions. This again suggests that the Etruscans had originally come from Turkey and brought their cows with them.

#record
Now listen to part of a lecture on the topic you just read about

(female professor) Well, the theory that the Etruscans originally came from Turkey is not convincing. The arguments mentioned in the passage have some crucial weaknesses.

Let's start with the historian Herodotus. Although his writings can sometimes be useful, they are not always reliable. Let me give you one example. In one of his books, he wrote that in a certain distant country there lived giant insects, insects so big that they could eat people. Well, that really sounds just like a story someone made up, doesn’t it? The point is, if Herodotus included stories like that in his books, how can we be sure that what he wrote about the Etruscans was true?

Second, about finding those inscriptions in a language similar to the Etruscan language on an island near Turkey, well, that doesn’t mean that Etruscans came from that island or the surrounding area. It could be just the opposite. It's possible that some Etruscans, who we know are great seafarers, sailed from Italy and settled on that island near Turkey. In other words, the language on the island could have come from Italy rather than the other way around.

Third, the genetic evidence about the Etruscan cows doesn’t prove anything about their owners. Sure it's quite likely that the cows originally came from Turkey, but remember, the Etruscans were important traders. So it's quite possible that the Etruscans used their trading connections to import certain products including farm animals into Italy from abroad. They could have easily imported some cows from Turkey. And because the imported cows flourished in Italy, they started breeding them.
#question
Summarize the points made in the lecture, being sure to explain how they respond to the specific arguments made in the reading passage.
