1. The word "indefinitely" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) easily  B) without effects  C) on purpose  D) endlessly2. According to paragraph 2, all of the following are considered to be evidence that sleep is needed for the body to repair itself EXCEPT:  A) The body’s resistance to disease is strengthened through sleep.  B) Body tissues are restored by the release of hormones during sleep.  C) The longer people sleep, the more activity occurs.  D) Sleep occurs whether or not physical activity has taken place.3. Why does the author say "Performing boring or ordinary tasks when sleep deprived, however, is nearly impossible" ?  A) To identify a type of task in which being sleep-deprived for a few days actually does affect physical and cognitive performance  B) To suggest that simple tasks are easier to perform than complex tasks after sleep deprivation  C) To indicate an important finding of a brain-imaging study on the effects of sleep deprivation on the prefrontal cortex  D) To suggest that physical acts are preformed more easily than cognitive acts after sleep deprivation4. The phrase "compensate for" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) add to  B) make up for  C) slow down  D) repair5. The word "extended" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) measurable  B) forced  C) occasional  D) lengthened6. The word "Consistent" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) Critical  B) Convincing  C) Unvarying  D) Considerable7. According to paragraph 3, what was one unexpected finding reported by studies investigating sleep deprivation?  A) Sleep deprivation helps people perform better on complex tasks.  B) Sleep deprivation of a few days’ duration does not significantly weaken performance on challenging tasks.  C) Sleep deprivation is more common in people who are physically inactive than it is in active people.  D) Sleep deprivation can sometimes temporarily improve physical ability.8. Which of the following can be inferred from the discussion about sleep deprivation in paragraph 3?  A) Short-term sleep deprivation has a negative impact on athletic performance.  B) Short-term sleep deprivation severely harms the immune system.  C) Sleep deprivation can have both positive and negative effects.  D) Sleep deprivation improves cognitive development by activating serotonin receptors.9. According to paragraph 4, which of the following is NOT true of the circadian rhythms of animals?  A) Circadian rhythms regulate physiological processes such as body temperature, hormone levels, and sleep-wake cycles of animals.  B) Animals that are kept in darkness will stop following circadian rhythms.  C) The daily periods of light and dark regulate the circadian rhythms of animals.  D) Sleep occurs during the part of the circadian cycle in which an active animal would be in the most danger.10. According to the circadian rhythm theory described in paragraph 5, which of the following does NOT determine the amount of time an animal sleeps?  A) How easily the animal can hide from attackers  B) How much energy the animal’s food provides  C) How likely it is that the animal will be attacked when it is active  D) The amount of time the animal needs to find food11. According to paragraph 6, what was a major finding of the study conducted by Robert Stickgold and his colleagues?  A) Most learning takes place during deep sleep.  B) Information and skills acquired during the day are reinforced during sleep.  C) Visual discrimination tasks cannot be learned without sleeping afterward.  D) At least six hours of sleep before performing a task is necessary for learning to occur.12. In paragraph 6, why does the author mention that infants and very young people sleep the most?  A) To argue against the findings of the study conducted by Robert Stickgold and his colleagues  B) To suggest that learning is not possible if infants and young people are deprived of sleep  C) To support the claim that sleep is critical to learning and reinforces it in important ways  D) To indicate that the brain circuits responsible for learning are more active in infants and young people than they are in adults13.Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   But how do biological clocks affect the amount of time an animal sleeps each day?   Where would the sentence best fit?14. Prose Summary   Several theories have been proposed to explain why sleep is important.   Answer Choices:   A) Sleep may be necessary to increase the body’s energy for use in physical activity, which in turn may speed up the process of tissue restoration.   B) Sleep may help repair damage to the body, although evidence suggests that only a long-term lack of sleep would cause a decline in physical health and cognitive functioning.   C) Sleep may control the development of daily rhythms that regulate basic physiological properties, such as body temperatures and hormone levels.   D) The function of sleep cycles in animals may be to allow them to minimize activity during periods of high risk.   E) Sleep may influence brain development by increasing the number of neuronal connections, which would explain why infants demonstrate higher brain activity than adults do.   F) Sleep may enable certain physiological changes that normally occur only during sleep to support and strengthen the process of learning.