1. According to paragraph 1, which of the following indicated the collapse of Mayan civilization around A.D. 900?  A) The Maya stopped carving stone monuments.  B) The Maya no longer explored foreign lands.  C) Most of the Maya moved to urban centers.  D) The Maya adopted foreign agricultural techniques.2. What point does the author want to make in paragraph 2 about earthquakes?  A) Earthquakes were the most likely cause for the collapse of Classic Mayan civilization.  B) It cannot be determined from examination of the remains of Mayan buildings whether or not they were destroyed by earthquakes.  C) The historical records of earthquakes in Mayan lowlands are not accurate.  D) Many different earthquakes contributed to the abandonment of the entire Mayan lowlands.3. According to paragraph 2, why is it unlikely that a natural disaster was the only cause of the collapse of Mayan civilization?  A) There were no earthquakes or hurricanes at the end of the Classic period.  B) Buildings collapsed as a result of natural decay and structural weaknesses.  C) Natural disasters did not occur often enough to cause lasting damage to Mayan crops.  D) The effects of natural disasters tend to be limited to areas smaller than the area of the Mayan collapse.4. According to paragraph 3, what evidence is there that a drought contributed to the collapse of Mayan civilization between A.D. 800 and A.D. 1000?  A) The Maya constructed a large closed-basin lake in the Yucatan.  B) There are indications of drought throughout Mayan territory.  C) Studies of sediment taken from Lake Chichancanab show that there were very dry periods.  D) Drought is thought to have affected several other civilizations.5. The word "compounded" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) outweighed  B) created  C) raised awareness to  D) added to6. The word "accessible" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) desirable  B) available  C) useful  D) renewable7. According to paragraph 4, what may have caused the collapse of Mayan agriculture?  A) Mayan farming practices eventually made land unusable for agriculture.  B) Mayan farmers were unable to find crops suited to the soil of the available land.  C) Sediment from the lakes of the Peten region began to erode the soil on which Mayan agriculture depended.  D) The Maya developed other means of subsistence that made agriculture less important.8. The word "consensus" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) knowledge  B) estimation  C) analysis  D) widespread agreement9. The word "exclusive" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) late  B) main  C) sole  D) intensive10. In paragraph 5, why does the author provide information about Mayan population figures?  A) To explain the effect of natural disaster on the Mayan population  B) To support the claim that resources may have been scarce  C) To indicate that overpopulation resulted in social chaos  D) To illustrate the gradual decline in urban population11. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.  A) Successful trade depended more on gaining power along the coasts than on the existing internal routes of the lowlands.  B) As the Putun gained power, the coasts replaced the lowland centers as the heart of economic and political activity.  C) Trade between lowland centers and the coasts seems to have been a result of the economic and political action of the Putun.  D) The Putun probably gained power initially through the economic and political success of lowland trade centers.12. Which of the following can be inferred from paragraph 6 about the Maya by the post-classic period?  A) They had stopped creating pottery, architecture, and sculpture.  B) They had replaced agriculture with seafaring as a means of survival.  C) They depended on the Putun-controlled centers of commerce.  D) They were moving to the coasts with a view to expanding their territory.13.Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   Some geological evidence suggests that the Maya were using up all their agricultural land.   Where would the sentence best fit?14.Prose Summary   Researchers have offered a variety of theories to explain the decline of the Mayan civilization around A.D. 900.   Answer Choices:   A) Evidence taken from remains of city buildings has led to the theory that an earthquake or a hurricane caused the Mayan collapse.   B) Although evidence is incomplete, it is believed that natural disasters and drought played a role in the collapse of Mayan civilization.   C) Studies show that Lake Chichancanab, a huge closed-basin lake that once existed in the Yucatan, dried up during a drought around A.D. 922.   D) Research suggests that environmentally destructive agricultural practices and poor planning probably left the Maya without a sufficient, sustainable food supply.   E) By the end of the Classic period, internal economic power struggles and invasions from other groups seem to have decreased the power of previously influential lowland centers.   F) The shift from a diverse agriculture to maize suggests the influence of invaders on the cultural practices of the Maya.