1. The word "robust" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) similar  B) evidence  C) natural  D) healthy2. In paragraph 1, why does the author mention the differing environments of three trout streams in the United States?  A) To indicate that the features of good trout streams have been studied in various geographical regions  B) To challenge the idea that most rivers in the United States are unsuitable for trout  C) To identify the three streams with the most abundant trout populations  D) To make the reader wonder what makes a good stream3. The word "optimal" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) exact  B) ideal  C) different  D) special4. Paragraph 2 suggests which of the following about water temperatures of trout streams?  A) Trout are able to tolerate higher water temperatures than most other types of fish.  B) Most species of trout prefer water temperatures between 16C and 21C.  C) No species of trout is able to survive in water temperatures higher than 26C.  D) Brown trout generally prefer the water temperature of streams at high elevations.5. According to paragraph 3, good trout streams are characterized by which of the following?  A) Areas throughout the stream where trout can gather.  B) Lots of vegetation, which provides good for the trout.  C) Plenty of routes, so that the trout can escape from predators.  D) A variety of objects in and above the stream that can hide an protect the trout.6. The word "obstruction" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) natural formation  B) small object  C) protection  D) barrier7. According to paragraph 4, why does a trout hold a station behind a rock?  A) To wait for drifting prey without having to fight against the force of the current  B) To more easily capture prey that becomes trapped behind the rocks  C) To remain hidden from potential prey that drift into the calm area of the stream  D) To signal to neighboring trout that all prey drifting through a particular area have been claimed8. According to paragraph 5, all of the following are often sources of food for trout EXCEPT  A) insects that are being moved down the stream by its currents  B) insects that live primarily on land rather than in the water  C) the eggs of small fishes such as minnows and small trout  D) insects found along the stream bottom9. According to paragraph 6, the presence of silt affects trout spawning areas by  A) forcing eggs out of their nests and into flowing water  B) decreasing the amount of water flowing around eggs  C) providing material for trout to use in building their nests  D) making it difficult for predators to locate eggs10. The word "predominantly" in the passage is closest in meaning to   A) exclusively   B) mainly   C) frequently   D) equally11. According to paragraph 7, streams with sand and silt on their bottoms   A) contain reproducing trout only if the stream has an area with a gravel bottom   B) cannot support significant trout populations   C) provide abundant material for trout to construct their redds   D) provide good conditions for the formation of the rocky substratum12. According to paragraph7, rocky river bottoms benefit trout in all of the following ways EXCEPT:   A) They provide trout with gravel that trout can transport to their redds in sandy areas.   B) They provide still locations where trout are protected from the current.   C) They provide many areas in which the trout's prey can be found.   D) They allow trout to hide from their predators.13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   But clear, flowing water alone does not ensure the healthy development of fish eggs.   Where would the sentence best fit?14. Prose Summary   Streams must possess a particular set of features in order to support trout populations.   Answer Choices:   A) Trout are the most common type of fish in the United States because they can live in so many different kinds of rivers.   B) Overhanging banks and branches, logs, and root wads provide the necessary food for trout by dropping insects into the stream.   C) Trout generally require cold water for survival, but different species and ages of trout prefer somewhat different water temperatures.   D) Riffles and strong currents enable trout to find food more easily, while pools and rocks provide important resting places for trout.   E) Trout typically live in streams with sand and silt bottoms because these areas are high in dissolved oxygen.   F) Trout require streams with areas of gravel in which to construct their redds and bury their eggs.