1. What is the lecture mainly about?
  A) A potential way of predicting the intensity of solar activity
  B) The weakening of the Sun's magnetic field over time
  C) The difference between weather on the Sun and on Earth
  D) Different theories about the location of sunspots

2. What does the professor say is the main source of solar storms on the Sun?
  A) A collision between the Sun's two solar conveyor belts
  B) The creation of new sunspots near the Sun's poles
  C) The excess radiation the Sun sends into space
  D) The movement of the Sun's magnetic fields

3. Why does the professor mention Earth's Great Ocean Conveyor Belt?
  A) To compare the flow of gas on Earth and on the Sun
  B) To point out a common misconception about sunspots
  C) To help students visualize a similar phenomenon on the Sun
  D) To point out difference between the magnetic fields of the Sun and Earth

4. How do scientists measure the speed of the Sun's conveyor belt?
  A) By analyzing the direction of solar wind
  B) By analyzing the concentration of gases on the Sun
  C) By measuring the speed of radiation leaving the Sun's surface
  D) By tracking the changing locations of sunspots

5. Why is the ability to predict the strength of solar storms important to scientists? [choose two answers]
  A) It enables scientists to predict changes in Earth's oceanic currents.
  B) It helps scientist to determine the best time for space exploration.
  C) It allows scientists to accurately calculate the strength of the Sun's magnetic field.
  D) It alerts scientists to potential disruptions of communications systems on Earth.

6. What is the professor's attitude about using observations of the Sun's conveyor belt to predict future solar storm activity?
  A) They are not at all useful for predicting solar activity.
  B) They are helpful only in making general predictions.
  C) They are best used to determine the time of solar maximum.
  D) They should be adapted for the study of Earth's ocean conveyor belt.

