1. What is the main purpose of the lecture?
  A) To examine the literary works of Isaac Newton
  B) To explain how the Romantic poets used imagery
  C) To examine the relationship between science and poetry in the eighteenth century
  D) To explain the influence of the Enlightenment on eighteenth-century science

2. What does the professor imply about artists and scientists?
  A) They have not always been appreciated by the public.
  B) Despite important differences they share some goals.
  C) Their methods are constantly changing.
  D) Their social importance has changed since the eighteenth century.

3. What does the professor say about the treatment of light by Newtonian poets?
  A) They focused on natural phenomena that involved color.
  B) They wrote about light more than their predecessors did.
  C) They considered the symbolic value of light more important than its physical properties.
  D) They considered light mainly in terms of its opposition to darkness.

4. According to the professor, in what ways did Opticks differ from other scientific works that Newton wrote? [choose two answers]
  A) It was written in English.
  B) It was written in a nontechnical style.
  C) It contained a number of color illustrations.
  D) It was not published during his lifetime.

5. Why does the professor mention the Romantic poets?
  A) To point out their similarities to Newtonian poets
  B) To emphasize the accessibility of their poetic imagery
  C) To show how some poets rejected Enlightenment ideas
  D) To give an example of poets who wrote extensively about light

6. What does the student imply when she says this:   
  A) She does not believe she could read a book in Latin.
  B) Most authors in eighteenth-century England wrote in Latin.
  C) Eighteenth-century poets were no better able to grasp complex scientific ideas than the general public.
  D) Eighteenth-century poets were more likely than the general public to be able to read Latin.
