1.	What does the professor mainly discuss?
A)	How new technologies have helped solve a long-standing mystery about the Anasazi
B)	Competing theories about when the Anasazi disappeared from Pinnacle Ruin
C)	Archaeologists' interpretations of recently discovered Anasazi artifacts
D)	Attempts to explain why the Anasazi moved away from the Four Corners region

2.	According to the professor, what evidence supports the view that the Anasazi occupied the Pinnacle Ruin site in New Mexico? [choose three answers]
A)	The site is located at the top of a cliff.
B)	The site contains pottery with designs like those of Anasazi pottery.
C)	The roofs at the site were made of logs that date from 1300.
D)	The walls at the site were constructed with thick layers of stone.
E)	The buildings at the site were arranged in a pattern typical of Anasazi communities.

3.	What have researchers tried to determine by analyzing the roof beams of Anasazi dwellings?
A)	Whether the Anasazi occupied the Four Corners region in the thirteenth century
B)	Climate conditions in the Four Corners region in the late thirteenth century
C)	The size of Anasazi houses in the four Corners region prior to the thirteenth century
D)	The types of trees the Anasazi preferred for building wooden structures

4.	In what way does Jeffrey Dean's research challenge established theories about the Anasazi's departure from the Four Corners region?
A)	It suggests that the period of drought in the region occurred much earlier than was previously believed.
B)	It suggests that the Anasazi would have had few sources of food in drought years.
C)	It suggests that fewer people lived in the region than was previously believed.
D)	It suggests that the region received rain in some years during the late thirteenth century.

5.	What did Carla Van West try to determine in her research?
A)	When the Anasazi were most likely to have experienced a severe drought
B)	Whether the Anasazi population in the Four Corners region was constant during the thirteenth century
C)	Whether agriculture in the Four Corners region could have sustained Anasazi communities during drought years
D)	Which crops were most important to the survival of Anasazi communities in the Four Corners region

6.	What does the professor imply when she discusses the timing of the construction at Pinnacle Ruin?
A)	Established ideas about the causes of the Anasazi migration do not provide a complete explanation.
B)	Van West's conclusions about the Anasazi's lifestyle are based on a misinterpretation of data.
C)	Drought probably had a more serious impact on Anasazi migration patterns than the evidence suggests.
D)	The Anasazi may have had several stages of migration to Pinnacle Ruin.
