1. What is the main topic of the lecture?
  A) Research into the adaptations of sea snakes' salt glands
  B) Evidence that clarifies how some marine animals stay hydrated
  C) A study that compares how land and marine animals find water
  D) The discovery of a process that allows sea snakes to drink saltwater

2. What does the professor imply about penguins and marine turtles?
  A) They cannot stay hydrated by drinking seawater.
  B) They mostly live along coastlines and near islands.
  C) They spend a lot of time searching for freshwater on land.
  D) They can eliminate salt from their bodies without losing much water.

3. What does the professor say about the salt glands of sea snakes? [choose two answers]
  A) They are not very efficient.
  B) They are located under the snake's tongue.
  C) They are evidence that sea snakes did not evolve from desert animals.
  D) They are larger than the salt glands of other marine animals.

4. What did the results of an experiment with sea snakes show?
  A) Sea snakes will not drink seawater, even if they are dehydrated.
  B) Sea snakes can remain hydrated by drinking both seawater and freshwater.
  C) Most species of sea snakes drink only seawater.
  D) Sea snakes prefer to swim in freshwater rather than in seawater.

5. What does the professor conclude when she talks about freshwater lenses?
  A) Their existence has caused researchers to doubt that some sea snakes spend their entire lives at sea.
  B) Evidence suggests that they provide enough water to support some sea snake populations.
  C) Most sea snakes use the lenses to supplement the water that they drink on land.
  D) Research has shown that the lenses occur most frequently in areas that are far from coastlines.

6. What can be inferred about the student when he says this:  
  A) He is not convinced that all cobras and coral snakes live on land.
  B) He does not understand how sea snakes are able to move on land.
  C) He is surprised that some sea snakes spend time on land.
  D) He was not aware that sea snakes lay eggs.
