#article
The continent of Australia has been inhabited by Aboriginal people for many thousands of years. Most historians believe that no Europeans visited Australia until 1606. Recently, however, some historians have questioned that belief, suggesting that sailors from the European country of Portugal in fact reached Australia as early as the 1520s. They cite several pieces of evidence.

    First, a series of European maps produced around 1550 depicts a large landmass to the southeast of Asia where we now know Australia to be. These maps, made by professional mapmakers, showed rivers and coasts labeled with Portuguese place names and were sold to wealthy and royal patrons. Some historians consider this reliable evidence that the Portuguese visited Australia in the early 1500s.

    Second, there is evidence that Europeans had knowledge of Australian animals before 1606. One illustrated page from a European book published in 1593 features a picture of a marsupial. Marsupials are mammals that are typical of Australia (kangaroos are marsupials, for example). Female marsupials have pouches in which young animals peeking out of their mother's pouch. This strongly suggests that some Europeans had been to Australia before the book's publication.

    Last, some artifacts found in Australia suggest that Europeans were present there in the 1500s. Archaeologists working in Northern Australia discovered a set of European-made metal keys while excavating a site. A common method of dating objects found in the ground is to analyze the soil in which the objects are buried. In this case, the soil where the keys were located is thought to date to the 1500s. This suggests that the keys were dropped at the site at some point in the 1500s.


#record
Now listen to part of a lecture on the topic you just read about.

(female professor) Most historians are not impressed by the evidence mentioned in the reading. They still believe that the first Europeans arrived in Australia in 1606 and not earlier.

First, yes, some maps made in the 1500s show a landmass in Australia's general area, but this landmass doesn’t look exactly like Australia; it shaped differently. This suggests that these maps were not based on direct observations but on second-hand stories that some sailors had heard. In the 1500s, even professional maps often had features based on second-hand stories. In this case, it's likely that some Portuguese sailors had heard stories about a mysterious land from Asian sailors and then the Portuguese sailors passed those stories on to the map makers who depicted that landmass very inaccurately in their maps. That certainly does not prove that the Portuguese sailors had actually visited Australia themselves.

Second, OK, there's a picture of a marsupial in the 1593 book published in Europe. But does that prove that Europeans had already been to Australia? Not necessarily. You see, not all marsupials live in Australia. Some marsupials are native to the forests of North and South America. And we do know that by 1593 Europeans had already explored the Americas. That's how they would have known about marsupials.

Third, the key discovered in Northern Australia are not good evidence either. Remember why those keys were originally dated to the 1500s? The dating was based on the analysis of the surrounding soil. Well, the same soil sample has been analyzed again recently using improved dating methods. Unfortunately, the new analysis has not confirmed the original dating of the soil. In fact, the new analysis of the soil showed that it is basically impossible to use the soil to date the keys. That means that we cannot be sure when the keys were dropped to that location.

#question
Summarize the points made in the lecture, being sure to explain how they cast doubt on the specific points made in the reading passage.

