1. What is the lecture mainly about?
  A) The types of games played at ancient ball courts
  B) The types of clay pots sold in one ancient civilization's marketplaces
  C) Ideas about how the Hohokam reused their former ball courts
  D) Ideas about how one part of the Hohokam economy functioned

2. Why does the professor talk about a baseball game?
  A) To introduce a similar game played by an ancient culture
  B) To point out a similarity between an ancient and modern marketing strategy
  C) To help explain how sporting events often have ritual functions
  D) To point out the difficulties of conducting business in areas where the towns are widely dispersed

3. According to the professor, what is the significance of the discovery that Hohokam pottery makers from different regions specialized in particular types of containers?
  A) It suggests that many Hohokam households made their own pottery.
  B) It indicates that the Hohokam marketplace functioned more reliably than would normally be expected.
  C) It proves that there was central control of Hohokam marketplaces.
  D) It reveals that some pottery used by the Hohokam people originated outside the Hohokam community.

4. According to the professor, what were the advantages of large-scale marketplaces for a Hohokam pottery maker? [choose two answers]
  A) They would allow the pottery maker to charge high prices.
  B) They would help minimize transportation costs.
  C) They would allow goods to reach sparsely populated areas.
  D) They would be a reliable way to obtain the clay with which to make pots.

5. What opinion does the professor express about the type of marketing system that uses horizontal market rings?
  A) The inefficiency of this type of system probably led to the decline of the Hohokam economy.
  B) The generally accepted view that this type of system is inefficient may need to be revised.
  C) There is not enough evidence to determine whether the Hohokam used this type of system.
  D) This type of system would be beneficial to many present-day economies.

6. What does the professor suggest is evidence that Hohokam marketplaces may have been connected with ball games?
  A) Ball courts and certain types of pottery declined at the same time.
  B) Hohokam Buff Ware pottery and ball courts both became popular at the same time.
  C) Designs on pottery represented ball courts.
  D) Large amounts of pottery have been found at ball courts.


