1. What does the professor mainly discuss?
  A) The life cycles of frog species in dry and wet habitats
  B) The relationship between forest fragmentation and frog populations
  C) A research study about the adaptation of frogs to dry climates
  D) A new theory about land-breeding amphibians

2. Why does the professor mention building houses along a lake?
  A) To show how wet and dry habitats can become divided
  B) To emphasize the large amount of building in the Atlantic Forest
  C) To explain why some frogs no longer breed in a wet habitat
  D) To demonstrate the effects of lake pollution on juvenile frogs

3. According to the professor, why is the Atlantic Forest in Brazil a good place to study habitat split? [choose two answers]
  A) Many animal species in the forest are endangered.
  B) Many streams have recently dried up in the forest.
  C) The forest is home to a large number of amphibian species.
  D) The forest that still exists is highly fragmented.

4. Why does the professor talk about the concept of habitat loss?
  A) To identify a way of measuring the size of an amphibian habitat
  B) To explain the reasons for the appearance of new frog populations in forest habitats
  C) To propose an alternative reason for the results of the study in the Atlantic Forest
  D) To correct a student's misunderstanding regarding the focus of the study in the Atlantic Forest

5. What was a finding in the study of the Atlantic Forest in Brazil?
  A) Land-breeding frogs were more affected by habitat split than water-breeding frogs were.
  B) Only small numbers of juvenile frogs reached dry forest fragments after leaving the water.
  C) Juvenile frogs may be able to adapt to environments affected by habitat split.
  D) The total habitat loss in the forest was less than originally thought.

6. What is the professor's opinion of habitat split as the main reason for the reduction in amphibian populations worldwide?
  A) She thinks it has been adequately confirmed by research in many parts of the world.
  B) She thinks there is not yet enough evidence to support that conclusion.
  C) She thinks it will probably be supported by future studies.
  D) She thinks the conclusion is based on inaccurate data from the study in Brazil.

