1.The word dispersed in the passage is closest in meaning to A) ActiveB) ScatteredC) VariedD) linked 2.According to paragraph 2, why were infectious diseases not a serious problem for most of human history A) There were very few infectious diseases early in human history. B) Population groups did not move around enough to be exposed to new diseases. C) Many disease-causing organisms had features that made them difficult to pass on to other humans. D) Population groups did not have enough contact with each other to spread diseases widely. 3.The word deficiencies in the passage is closest in meaning to A) Complications B) IllnessesC) ShortagesD) irregularities4.According to paragraph 3, which of the following contributed to the rise of epidemics A) The development of more deadly forms of human disease B) The spread of ineffective treatments for infectious disease C) The spread of mosquito-borne diseases to other disease carriers D) The practice of exchanging goods between settled areas 5.Which of the following is NOT mentioned in paragraph 3 as a reason that agriculture led to greater exposure to disease A) Irrigation created areas where disease-carrying mosquitoes could reproduce. B) People increasingly came into contact with disease-carrying animals attracted to food storage areas. C) Agricultural products spoiled more readily, leading to more frequent episodes of disease. D) Farming exposed humans to disease-carrying insects in the soil. 6.According to paragraph 3, how did sanitation problems in early farming societies lead to the spread of infectious diseases A) Water used for irrigating crops was not always clean. B) Larger populations were increasingly exposed to human and animal waste. C) Farm products that spoiled in fields attracted insects and animals with diseases. D) Lack of varied food sources occasionally forced communities to eat food that carried diseases. 7.According to paragraph 4, which of the following best describes the second epidemiological transition A) Modern medicine made it possible for people to live longer even if they had an infectious disease. B) Infectious diseases were harder to cure due to factors like stress and pollution. C) New infectious diseases appeared as quickly as modern medical science was able to control old ones. D) Chronic diseases replaced infectious diseases as the major cause of human sickness and death.8.According to paragraph 4, all of the following likely contributed to chronic disease EXCEPT A) longer life expectancies B) decreased physical activity C) higher rates of poverty D) changes in diet9.The word emerging in the passage is closest in meaning to A) appearing B) spreading C) becoming more serious D) replacing others10.According to paragraph 4, what is true about chronic diseases during the second epidemiological transition A) They were common among people with high living standards. B) They could be controlled with antibiotics. C) They affected more people than infectious diseases did. D) They led people to seek healthier lifestyles.11.Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information. A) Humans contact other species during population growth into previously little-inhabited areas. B) Species that carry diseases deadly to humans live in areas with small, mobile populations. C) Increased mobility and population expansion into new areas exposes humans to new, deadly diseases carried by other species. D) Some species that humans contact in little-inhabited areas are immune to diseases that are deadly to humans.12.What can be inferred from the discussion of antibiotic-resistant strains of bacteria in paragraph 6 A) Most microorganisms cannot survive multiple exposures to antibiotics. B) Tuberculosis strains are much more likely to be antibiotic-resistant than are other microorganisms. C) Bacteria that reproduce quickly are more likely to become resistant to antibiotics. D) Exposing microorganisms to a constant barrage of antibiotics prevents them from evolving resistance.13.Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.But the denser populations of agricultural communities were only one of many factors contributing to the increased risk of disease.Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square [] to add the sentence to the passage.14.Drag your choices to the spaces where they belong. To review the passage, click on View Text .Answer Choices A) In early human history, nomadic groups started encountering diseases when they moved to new environments. B) Infectious diseases have increased steadily in impact and severity from the agricultural revolution through today as a result of increasing contact between human societies. C) The transition to farming meant that humans had both more contact with one another and with other species that carried diseases, leading to disease epidemics. D) During the second epidemiological transition, better public health measures and improved nutrition helped control chronic diseases. E) Once advances in medical science resulted in better control or elimination of many infectious diseases, diseases resulting from the modern lifestyle became a major problem. F) Humans today are at risk for contracting both new diseases and old diseases that have reemerged and, in some cases, have become resistant to antibiotics. 