1.In paragraph 1, why does the author state that Earth has less nitrogen, argon, hydrogen, and helium than the Sun A) To argue that these elements were once part of an early atmosphere, which disappeared B) To suggest that these elements were drawn into the Sun's atmosphere C) To provide evidence that Earth's original atmosphere came primarily from meteorites D) To support the claim that Earth's atmosphere would have changed even more if it had contained more volatile elements 2.The word constituent in the passage is closest in meaning to A) SourceB) EquivalentC) Component D) product 3.According to paragraph 2, the history of volcanic outgassing cannot explain which of the following A) The lack of oxygen in the atmosphere 4 billion years ago B) The amount of water vapor in the atmosphere today C) The proportions of nitrogen and carbon dioxide in the atmosphere today D) The present abundance of oxygen in the atmosphere 4.Paragraph 3 suggests which of the following about the process of photodissociation A) It is more common today than it was in the early history of the atmosphere. B) It is responsible for only a small amount of the oxygen in the atmosphere today. C) It removes trace amounts of oxygen from the atmosphere. D) It produces more free oxygen than photosynthesis does. 5.According to paragraph 4, what can be learned from the type of iron compounds in seafloor rocks A) How the process of photosynthesis has changed over time B) The level of oxygen in the water at a certain time in history C) How levels of iron in ocean water decreased over time D) The overall mineral content of the ocean water 6.The word gradual in the passage is closest in meaning to A) CrucialB) Original C) BeneficialD) slow 7.The word predominate in the passage is closest in meaning to A) are in the majority B) are present C) are increasing D) first appear 8.According to paragraph 4, banded-iron formations are found in what kind of rocks A) Those that are more than 2.5 billion years old B) Those that do not contain oxidized compounds C) Those that are from a transitional period in terms of oxygen richness D) Those that are less than 1.8 billion years old 9.Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information. A) Since the oceans and the atmosphere function together, the atmosphere must have become oxygen rich during this period. B) Because ocean water is in constant contact with the atmosphere, the two systems maintain a dynamic equilibrium. C) The transition to an oxygen-rich atmosphere could not have happened without constant contact with the oceans. D) Much of the oxygen in the oceans must have been pulled out of the atmosphere during this period. 10.According to paragraph 5, which of the following happened sometime between 1100 and 542 million years ago A) A sudden explosion of life forms on land occurred together with a sharp decline of life in the water. B) Ultraviolet radiation became more harmful to living organisms. C) Molecular oxygen levels in the atmosphere stabilized, and ozone levels began to rise. D) Ozone reduced ultraviolet radiation to a level acceptable for life on land. 11.According to paragraph 6, which of the following is NOT true of the connection between mammals and oxygen A) Mammals are able to survive only because oxygen levels are relatively high. B) Mammals first emerged when atmospheric oxygen levels reached 10 percent. C) A mammal's unborn child receives oxygen through the mother's placenta. D) Mammals use a lot of oxygen partly because they are warm-blooded. 12.The word diffuse in the passage is closest in meaning to A) SpreadB) BreakC) SqueezeD) speed 13.Drag your choices to the spaces where they belong. To review the passage, click on View Text .Answer Choices A) Over the last 4 billion years, outgassing destroyed Earth's primary atmosphere of volatile elements and replaced it with nonvolatile materials including carbon dioxide. B) The small amount of oxygen in Earth's early atmosphere was due to photodissociation and, later, photosynthesis created free oxygen. C) Mammals could not have survived without an oxygen-rich atmosphere, and land-based life would not be possible without the ozone layer to filter solar radiation. D) When oxygen levels in the ocean water reached a critical level about 542 million years ago, life emerged in the oceans, as shown by sedimentary rocks. E) Although they are currently at about 21 percent, oxygen levels will probably not always remain this high. F) The breakdown of organic matter removes free oxygen, but if this process is interrupted, extra oxygen may accumulate in the atmosphere. 