1.	What is the main purpose of the lecture?
A.	To discuss a challenge that must be overcome before people can live on the Moon
B.	To explain some advantages and disadvantages of building a colony on the Moon
C.	To question the reliability of some of the experiments conducted on lunar soil
D.	To describe the discovery of an atmosphere on the Moon

2.	Why does the professor mention oxide compounds in the regolith?
A.	To point out that multiple techniques might be required to extract oxygen from the various compounds
B.	To propose that the trace amounts of oxygen in the Moon's atmosphere escaped from the regolith
C.	To emphasize that the regolith is gray because of its high aluminum oxide content
D.	To point out that lunar soil contains large quantities of oxygen

3.	What points does the professor emphasize about soil samples collected during the Apollo space missions?	Click on 2 answers.
A.	They are less abrasive than simulated lunar soil.
B.	Some of their properties may have changed.
 
C.	Each sample was taken from a different layer of the regolith.
D.	There are very few of them left for research.

4.	What point does the professor make when he discusses the formation of lunar soil?
A.	The formation process can be replicated using vacuum pyrolysis.
B.	The number of complex compounds in lunar soil is lower than scientists expected.
C.	Lunar soil is a product of repeated exposure to violent forces.
D.	Lunar soil is comprised primarily of iron compounds.

5.	What does the professor imply when he mentions that lunar soil is electrically charged?
A.	Lunar soil might interfere with the operation of equipment on the Moon.
B.	Lunar soil could be used as a power source on the Moon.
C.	Electrical charges on the Moon are less powerful than those on Earth.
D.	Extracting oxygen from lunar soil might be easier than previously thought.

6.	Why does the professor say this?
A.	To suggest that the answer to his question is obvious
B.	To suggest that it is not necessary to collect more lunar soil samples
C.	To introduce an explanation that might be unexpected
D.	To ask the students to recall what they have learned so far