1. What does the professor mainly discuss?
  A) Early advances in tool-making skills on the central East European Plain
  B) Evidence for the early migration of humans onto the central East European Plain
  C) Methods used to reconstruct the early migration paths of humans
  D) Reasons for the disappearance of the Aurignacian culture at Kostenki

2. Why does the professor mention an ivory carving of a human head found at the Kostenki site?
  A) To show that the early settlers of Kostenki possessed sophisticated tools
  B) To indicate that the Kostenki settlers brought raw materials with them from Africa
  C) To prove that trade existed between Kostenki and settlements in western Europe
  D) To reinforce the idea that the artifacts found at Kostenki were Aurignacian

3. What point does the professor make about radiocarbon dating?
  A) It is not a dependable tool for dating artifacts over a certain age.
  B) It is the only reliable way to date organic materials like bone or ivory.
  C) It has been used to contradict the claim that Kostenki was settled 45,000 years ago.
  D) It has been used to confirm the date that a large volcano erupted in Italy.

4. How were archaeologists able to determine the minimum age of the Kostenki artifacts?
  A) From their proximity to the bones of certain animals
  B) From their location relative to a layer of ash
  C) From the discovery of tools near the site
  D) From the style of personal ornaments found at the site

5. Why does the professor mention the discovery of needles at Kostenki?
  A) To show that not all of the tools found at Kostenki were technologically advanced
  B) To indicate a type of tool not found at other Aurignacian settlements
  C) To indicate that the Kostenki settlers were equipped to survive in a cold climate
  D) To provide a contrast between technological achievements and representational art

6. What is the professor's opinion about early human migration to Europe?
  A) Humans first settled in a surprising location.
  B) Humans arrived in Europe later than previously thought.
  C) Humans preferred to migrate to cold climates.
  D) It is impossible to date early human migration.