1. What is the discussion mainly about?
  A) Methods used to determine whether fossils belong to a dinosaur
  B) The challenge of determining the number of dinosaur species
  C) Evidence that dinosaurs existed later than previously thought
  D) Similarities between two closely related dinosaur species

2. What point does the professor make about paleontologists in the late 1800s?
  A) They were often more interested in personal recognition than in scientific accuracy.
  B) They generally sought more training than other types of scientists did.
  C) Most of them became fascinated with dinosaurs at a very young age.
  D) They collaborated to study newly discovered dinosaur fossils.

3. What does the professor emphasize about the current guidelines for naming new dinosaur species?
  A) They are somewhat controversial.
  B) They are based primarily on skull analysis.
  C) They are in the process of being updated.
  D) They are much stricter than the guidelines of the past.

4. According to research mentioned by the professor, what is the relationship between Triceratops and Torosaurus?
  A) They represent the same species at different stages of development.
  B) They utilized different resources in their shared habitat.
  C) Torosaurus died out before Triceratops came into existence.
  D) Torosaurus probably preyed on Triceratops.

5. What is the professor explaining when she asks the students about the fossilization process?
  A) Why dinosaur fossils are particularly easy to find in certain parts of the world
  B) Why some dinosaur species may not be represented in the fossil record
  C) Why skulls and teeth are more likely to fossilize than other dinosaur bones are
  D) Why dinosaur fossils are better preserved than most other kinds of fossils

6. What does the professor imply about dinosaur DNA?
  A) It is surprisingly complex.
  B) It has already helped paleontologists identify new dinosaur species.
  C) It will probably never be very useful to paleontologist.
  D) It holds promise for confirming the identification of species in the future.