1. Why does the professor discuss Spiral Jetty?
  A) To provide an introduction to the Earth Art movement
  B) To clarify the differences between Conceptualism and Earth Art
  C) To analyze the sculpture that inspired the Earth Art movement
  D) To highlight nature as a connecting theme across different art movements

2. How did Earth Art artists rebel against art galleries and museums? [choose two answers]
  A) They used only dirt and heavy rocks in sculpture.
  B) They created large sculptures that could not be displayed indoors.
  C) They required galleries to bring visitors to the sculpture site.
  D) They put their sculptures at locations that were not easily accessible.

3. According to the professor, what impact has nature had on Spiral Jetty?
  A) The sculpture can no longer support the weight of a car.
  B) Water levels have completely concealed the sculpture at times.
  C) Water has slowly moved rocks out of their original position.
  D) Mud now covers a large section of the sculpture.

4. What does the professor suggest about the possible presence of oil rigs near the sculpture site?
  A) Oil rigs might weaken the rock, limestone, and earth that hold the jetty together.
  B) Oil rigs would create an economic benefit for the communities located near the jetty.
  C) The presence of oil rigs might allow viewers to have a more thought-provoking experience.
  D) The presence of oil rigs would probably increase the number of visitors to the sculpture site.

5. Why does the professor discuss sketches and miniature models?
  A) To illustrate the wide variety of Earth Art projects that were created
  B) To point out the large influence galleries ultimately had on Earth Art artists
  C) To compare Spiral Jetty in its beginning stages to the final sculpture
  D) To point out that some Earth Art projects never moved past the planning stage

6. What does the professor imply about the methods used by many Earth Art artists?
  A) The artists' methods have received more praise than criticism.
  B) The artists' methods are not relevant to critics' evaluations of their artworks.
  C) The artists' methods may have undesirable consequences for the environment.
  D) The artists' methods have been adopted by other types of artists.


