Listen to a conversation between a student and the dean of student activities.

(woman) Dean Anderson, I'm Sandra Myers. Thank you for seeing me. As I said on the phone, I'm on the student government committee for new initiatives.
(man) Right, and you have a proposal for a new campus program, something for first-year students I believe.
(woman) Yes, we'd like to start a freshman resource center, a place where first-year students could go to find out about everything from clubs, on-campus jobs, to how to choose a major.
(man) But isn't all that information already available?
(woman) Yes, problem is, advising information's in one place, information about clubs and social activities is somewhere else. It's hard to know where to find the information you're looking for.
(man) So this would be like a one-stop information center, uh, tell me, Sandra, was this a problem for you when you started here, uh, getting this information?
(woman) A bit, I came from a small high school in a small town, the university, the city, there's just so much going on here. And my friends, other first-year students, were in the same boat. Luckily, I had a really great advisor in my dorm. She became my mentor; help me figure things out, you know. And that's the kind of experience we'd like everyone to have.
(man) Well, has type of program been implemented in other universities? Uh, do you know it's been successful?
(woman) We did some research and found several programs similar to the one we'd like to see here. A couple of us actually visited some of the centers. We talked to students who used them to students who work in them and to administrators. Everyone said the center's really improved the university experience for first-year students.
(man) Well, it's an admirable idea. But you know there's never enough money to fund every admirable idea. Have you thought about just setting up a Web site with links to the information?
(woman) That's definitely part of our plan. But we think it's important for students to be able to sit down and talk with someone. We wouldn't need much, an office in the student activities building, the money to cover printing costs. We'd staff the center with volunteers.
(man) Well, it sounds as though you've put a lot of thought into this. Now, even though the idea is coming from the student government organization, you'll still need to submit a formal proposal to our office for consideration. In addition to explaining the service: who it's for, its purpose, how it'll operate; you'll need to submit a budget for the year. You'll find detailed instructions and the necessary forms on the student activities Web site. And, by the way, all budget requests for next year are due at the end of the month, so you'll have to get busy.
