Listen to part of a lecture in an Art class.

(male professor) When thinking about the broad world of art, it's probably fair to say that in most people's minds the artist's role is that of a creator. And the viewing public's role is that of interested but passive observer. Well, that doesn't always have to be the case. There's a genre of art called participatory art, where the observers actually become co-creators. They're crucial to shaping the experience. They become part of the art itself. And we're starting to see a lot more participatory art these days. Take, for instance, the work of Paul Ramirez Jonas.

Paul Ramirez Jonas' piece is called Keys to the city. Typically, a single key to the city is awarded only to a special hero or a high-profile visiting official. Ramirez Jonas, however, wanted to provide that opportunity to regular everyday people in New York City. Over a period of one month, more than fifteen thousand individuals came to pick up a key to participate. People made their way to a designated spot in the city.

There, they entered a small gated grassy square that had been constructed solely for this experience. Once inside, they signed their name in an official record book and completed the short statement about why they deserved a key. Then, two at a time, participants read each other's statements aloud and awarded the keys. And these weren't standard symbolic keys, ones that couldn't be used. Each of these keys was real. The keys all unlocked twenty four specific sites spread all throughout the different regions of the city. Since people went on different days and unlocked the locks in different order, each person's adventure unfolded in different ways.

Now, Ramirez Jonas' work can definitely be interpreted as a protest against a technology-filled society that isolates that distances people. In fact, that's one of the two main reasons artists choose to create works of participatory art. And the other main reason they create art like this is that participatory art serves as a criticism of the power of traditional art institutions. So, typically, over the past fifty years, participatory art has not taken place inside museum.

However, recently that's been starting to change. Ironically, museums are now trying to include participatory art into their programs, since it brings people in, which is certainly a good thing for a museum. Artist Marina Abramovic's piece, The Artist Is Present, is an example of successful participatory art installation in a museum.

For The Artist Is Present, Marian Abramovic set up two chairs facing each other. She sat in one chair and visitors to the museum had the option to sit in the chair facing her without talking and just look into her eyes for however long they wished. So, you see, again this work is not complete unless there is a visitor there to alter what is happening. Some sat for five minutes, some twenty minutes, some sat for over an hour. I was fortunate enough to be able to attend it and it was very thought-provoking and riveting to watch.

Each person who sat opposite to her changed the energy; changed the dynamic of that silence. Ultimately, there was quite a turnout for both Ramirez Jonas' and Abramovic's pieces. But a large attendance is not a requirement of the art form. Not all participatory art occurs on such a large scale as that. I mean there's task event, for example, T A S K, task events involve a selected group of participants, say, twenty people.

There's something you could even easily hold in a university dormitory lounge. Participants are given basic materials like cardboard, tape, plastic bags, pens and so on. They're given two-step instructions. Step one, each person in the group writes an activity task on a piece of paper and puts it in the box. Step two, each person pulls a task from the box and interprets it in their own way. 

An example of a task could be draw a sketch of someone in the group and have each person in the group draw a part of it. Or, build a tree. So, at its core, I'd say that the works generated by participatory artists are unique to the specific combination of participants involved. It's not really possible to control what the outcome will be; nor to the artist's wish to exert that control.
