Listen to part of a lecture in an Environmental Science class.

(female professor) Today as we continue to examine environmental management practices, you'll start to see that developing a coherent wildlife management plan is not often as straightforward a process as you might have thought. In fact, it can be quite contentious with different groups each trying to make sure that their concerns and interests are given due consideration.

(male student) But isn't everybody interested in the same things, protecting wildlife, clean up pollution?

(professor) Yeah, you'd think so. But sometimes when you start protecting one species, you may actually be endangering another or damaging a habitat or creating some other kind of problem. Um, a good example is a rather large migratory bird that's found from Alaska to Mexico, the double-crested cormorant.

There're six species of cormorant in North America. But the double-crested is by far the most common. It lives along coast and inland waterways, lakes and rivers, where it feeds on fish. The species was listed as endangered in the 1970s but it's rebounded since then.

(male student) That's great, so what's the problem?

(professor) Actually, it's the success of the cormorant that's causing the problems. Take this island near where I grew up, South Dumpling Island off the coast of Connecticut. Cormorants started settling on South Dumpling about ten years ago and now about 500 of them are living there. Some local residents complain that's just too many cormorants that they'd become, quote, overabundant.

(female student) Overabundant? Compare to when they were endangered?

(professor) Uh, a very important question, conservationists generally rely on historical data to determine what current population sizes ought to be. We know that there were huge cormorant colonies all over North America throughout the 1800s. The largest had about a quarter million breeding pairs. That's about ten times more than the largest colony in existence today.

But through various human activities, the double-crested cormorant became endangered. It was particularly affected by the introduction of the pesticide DDT in the 1940s and 50s. Um, one of the side effects of DDT was that it damaged bird eggs; made their shells too thin to protect the embryo. So, that colony I mentioned that once had a quarter million cormorant pairs, by 1969 there were only about five thousand pairs left.

(male student) So how did these birds make a comeback?

(professor) Well, DDT became illegal in 1972. And along with the banning of this pesticide, new habitats were created, protected areas where cormorants could set up their colonies. Plus, there's been a large increase in the number of fish farms, where fish are raised commercially. And those have increased the food available to cormorants even in places where stock of wild fish have decreased. So, the cormorants have rebounded, although, and this is crucial, not back to anything like the numbers seen in the 1800s.

(male student) But, basically, we've got more cormorants now than we did ten, fifteen years ago. That still seems like a good thing to me.

(professor) Sure, on the other hand, cormorants don't necessarily make the best neighbors. They strip leaves off vegetation to build their nests and their droppings are so acidic that they can actually kill trees. So what used to be a healthy ecosystem becomes just a barren place full of dead trees, not too scenic. And most people don't consider cormorants themselves particularly graceful or handsome either, like cranes or pelicans.

In fact, a lot of the opposition to the cormorant is basically esthetic. You see, people often say they want to help a once common species thrive again. But they aren't so enthusiastic when that includes elements of ugliness, which is the case here.

(female student) Are there other reasons to be concerned about increasing numbers of cormorants?

(professor) Yes, some claimed that their feeding habits are causing economic damage. This is more of a concern for commercial fish farms than for wild fisheries. But, for instance, it's been estimated that cormorants have been causing catfish farmers in the state of Mississippi to lose ten million dollars or more per year.
