1. What is the main purpose of the lecture?
  A) To describe the stages in the life cycles of organisms that interact with one another
  B) To describe different types of symbiotic relationships
  C) To discuss the multiple effects that a parasite can have on a host organism
  D) To discuss the potential of using parasites to control harmful insect populations

2. Why does the professor mention the mistletoe plant?
  A) To make the point that parasites include organisms of various types
  B) To make the point that species can live close to one another without being in a symbiotic relationship
  C) To give an example of a symbiotic relationship between a plant and an insect
  D) To give an example of a relationship in which the parasite and the host have interchangeable roles

3. What view does the professor express regarding commensalism?
  A) It is more useful for understanding animals than plants.
  B) It is becoming the focus of exciting new research in biology.
  C) It is the type of symbiotic relationship that is best understood.
  D) It may not truly be a type of symbiosis.

4. Why does the professor mention vitamin K?
  A) To explain how the human body defends itself against intestinal parasites
  B) To describe a nutritional deficiency caused by a bacterium
  C) To support her statement that humans benefit from intestinal bacteria
  D) To explain why some foods are difficult for people to digest

5. What does the Xenorhabdus bacterium do after it enters an insect’s bloodstream? [choose three answers]
  A) It deactivates the insect’s immune system.
  B) It secretes chemicals that temporarily paralyze the insect.
  C) It releases digestive enzymes.
  D) It causes severe blood clotting.
  E) It produces substances that kill other types of bacteria.

6. What point does the professor make about the relationship between the worm, the Xenorhabdus bacterium, and the insect?
  A) It is an example of an interaction that harms all participants.
  B) It is an example of both mutualism and parasitism.
  C) It shows that mutualism is a rare occurrence in nature.
  D) It shows that organisms have various ways to protect themselves against parasites.
