1. The word "occasionally" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) surprisingly  B) apparently  C) suddenly  D) sometimes2. According to paragraph 1, all of the following are true of mammoths EXCEPT:  A) They are related to modern elephants.  B) They lived during a period of mostly cold weather.  C) They were nearly extinct by the end of the Pleistocene.  D) They began decreasing in numbers about 1.8 million years ago.3. In paragraph 2, all of the following are mentioned in the climate model of extinction EXCEPT  A) shorter summers and longer winters  B) an overall increase in global temperatures  C) less rain in the summer and more rain and snow in the winter  D) a decrease in winter temperatures and an increase in summer temperatures4. The word "drastically" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) extremely  B) gradually  C) unexpectedly  D) uncontrollably5. It can be inferred from paragraph 3 that, during most of the Pleistocene, plants A, B, and C  A) were in too short supply to feed both mammoths and other herbivores  B) were each limited to the habitats where they grew best  C) would all have been available in the same location  D) slowly shifted their locations over time6. The word "Segregated" in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) Related  B) Separated  C) Stressed  D) Reduced7. According to paragraph 4, why might the restriction of plant and animal species to smaller areas have resulted in extinction for mammoths?  A) Mammoths would have had to compete with other large animals for limited plant resources.  B) Crossbreeding would have occurred between mammoth populations with dissimilar genes.  C) Plant species would have acquired defective genes, making them less nutritious for mammoths.  D) More mammoth inbreeding would have occurred, resulting in the spread of defective genes.8. According to paragraph 6, woolly mammoths in Siberia may have eventually died out because  A) animals attracted to warmer temperatures competed for limited resources  B) grasslands became colder and drier, while forests became hotter and wetter  C) the forests where they lived became water-soaked when temperatures rose  D) their preferred habitats were replaced by either tundras or forests9. In paragraph 6, what is the author’s purpose in discussing climate changes in Siberia during the end of the Pleistocene?  A) To illustrate how dramatically climates changed throughout the world at the end of the Pleistocene  B) To give an example of a place where the climate model provides a good explanation for extinction patterns  C) To compare the effects of climate change among woolly mammoths, reindeer and oxen  D) To introduce a new climate change model that better explains extinction patterns in Eurasia10. What can be inferred from paragraph 6 about reindeer and musk oxen?   A) Their diet did not change as a result of late Pleistocene warming.   B) They preferred the tundra over other types of habitats.   C) They died out in large numbers at the end of the Pleistocene.   D) The Pleistocene warming did not affect their ability to get adequate nutrients.11. According to paragraph 7, why doesn’t the climate model hold up as well in North America as it does in other places?   A) North American mammoths would have had easy access to grasses.   B) The climate in North America remained the same throughout the Pleistocene.   C) North American mammoths were capable of migrating longer distances than mammoths in other places.   D) The mix of grasses changed in North America as a result of Pleistocene warming.12. What is the author’s purpose in mentioning the "twenty-two major climatic cycles and thousands of smaller ones" that occurred during the Pleistocene?   A) To argue against the evidence supporting the climate model of extinction   B) To suggest that Late Pleistocene warming was more severe than earlier periods of warming   C) To illustrate how much our knowledge of Pleistocene climate change has advanced in recent years   D) To argue that other mass extinctions must have occurred throughout the Pleistocene13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.    These isolated grassland areas could not survive the changing climate conditions.    Where would the sentence best fit?14. Prose Summary    Climate events may have caused the extinction of mammoths at the end of the Pleistocene.    Answer Choices:    A) As temperatures warmed, the variety of plant species available in any one location was limited and this limited herbivores to certain areas, worsening their diet and increasing inbreeding.    B) An alternative to the climate model of extinction suggests that too much crossbreeding between mammoths and other species may have been responsible for mass extinctions.    C) Because the climate of North America did not change significantly during the Pleistocene, mammoths in North America did not become extinct.    D) Reindeer, oxen, and other large mammals did not become extinct, suggesting that factors other than climate may have caused the extinction of mammoths at the end of the Pleistocene.    E) Climate change provides a good explanation for the extinction of mammoths in some parts of the world, such as Eurasia, but not necessarily in other parts of the world.    F) The climate model does not explain why mass extinctions occurred only at the end of the Pleistocene and not during earlier periods of warming.