1. Paragraph 1 supports which of the following about electrical power before 1910?  A) The peak production time for electrical energy was at night.  B) Customers feared the changes that electricity would create in their domestic lives.  C) The primary uses of electrical power were for industry and transportation.  D) Increased demand for residential power was just starting to drive up prices.2. The word “properties” in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) contributions  B) characteristics  C) possibilities  D) advantages3. According to paragraph 2, which of the following was a practice used in gas-fueled houses?  A) Keeping windows closed to prevent drafts from blowing out lights  B) Ensuring that air circulated freely throughout the house  C) Using colors that made soot less visible  D) Making larger rooms with exposure to light in order to reduce the need for gas4. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.  A) Only after the development of piped water and sanitary-waste disposal systems were new locations for bedrooms and bathrooms appealing.  B) The invention of piped water and sewers made possible bathrooms that included sinks, tubs, and toilets, and, along with bedrooms, these rooms became the only private spaces in homes.  C) There were few isolated and private spaces in these designs, but they did have the advantage of piped water and sanitary-waste disposal systems.  D) The new designs made it practical and appealing to increase private spaces in different locations both inside and outside the house.5. According to paragraph 3, which of the following is NOT one of the advantages electrified homes had over gas-lit homes?  A) A greater number of rooms for separate purposes  B) More sources of light  C) More flexibility in how furniture could be arranged  D) Brighter interiors6. The word “substantially” in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) frequently  B) predictably  C) somewhat  D) significantly7. The word “allegedly” in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) supposedly  B) primarily  C) conveniently  D) probably8. According to paragraph 4, in the early twentieth-century which of the following changes in home design began to take place?  A) An increased number of libraries, pantries, sewing rooms, and spare bedrooms  B) The presence of a single living room designed for both family use and entertaining guests  C) The enlargement of the kitchen  D) The inclusion of a large entrance hall9. According to paragraph 5, all of the following are true of the bungalow EXCEPT  A) It was small and informal.  B) All the rooms were on the same floor.  C) The first homes of this type were built in California.  D) Its design changed as it spread eastward from California.10. In paragraph 5, the author provides the information that 5.7 million homes were occupied in the 1920s in order to   A) offer evidence that more homes were built between 1900 and 1920 than in the period before or after   B) help illustrate the dramatic rise in the number of homes constructed in a thirty-year period   C) explain why Americans in the 1930s had become concerned about a lack of privacy   D) identify the specific decade in which it became common for homes to become electrified11. The word “apparent” in the passage is closest in meaning to   A) known   B) immediate   C) obvious   D) mentioned12. The author includes the information on that “the Muncie, Indiana, public library loaned out eight times as many books per inhabitant in 1925 as it had in 1890” in order to   A) provide evidence that Muncie, Indiana, was a rising center of culture   B) show that electric lighting had a great impact on public institutions as well as on private homes   C) argue that the expansion of public libraries more than anything else was the likely reason children began reading more   D) provide evidence for the claim that electric lighting contributed to increased reading at home13.Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   
   In fact, a couple of decades later around ninety percent of houses in cities and big towns had electricity.   
   Where would the sentence best fit?14. Prose Summary   The introduction of electric lighting at the turn of the twentieth century fundamentally changed the design of American homes.   Answer Choices:   A) Because gas lighting involved odors, soot, and the threat of explosions, Victorian houses were built with many small rooms that could be shut off.   B) As electricity brightened homes, it sparked a new interest in interior design, including elaborate decoration, more vivid colors, and fancier home furnishings.   C) Electric lighting allowed for more flexible use of space but it was also expensive, so new homes tended to have fewer rooms and fewer barriers between rooms.   D) Bathrooms were an innovation of the time, which arose out of the rising interest in dedicating specific spaces to specific purpose.   E) In terms of lifestyle, changes resulting from electrification meant that family members had less privacy and spent more time in common areas, and they also tended to read more.   F) The bungalow was a new type of home first designed by Frank Lloyd Wright, which immediately appealed to the stylish and wealthy.