1. The word “leftover” in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) gathering  B) spreading  C) remaining  D) floating2. The word “ensured” in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) showed  B) suggested  C) confirmed  D) guaranteed3. According to paragraph 1, the cloud of material from the formation of the Sun consisted of TWO of the following. To receive credit, you must select TWO answers.  A) A very large amount of hydrogen and helium  B) Material blown from other young stars  C) Small particles of dust  D) Particles that are also found in smoke4. Why does the author mention “runners going round a track,” “a child’s balloon,” and “whirlwinds” in the discussion of the interaction of particles in the Sun’s protoplanetary disc?  A) To argue that interactions among the particles were no different from certain phenomena observed on Earth  B) To help explain how different types of particle interactions were actually very similar to one another  C) To suggest that the interactions among the particles were simpler than astronomers once believed  D) To use relatively familiar concepts to illustrate particle interactions that contributed to planet formation5. Which of the following is NOT mentioned in paragraph 2 as a characteristic of the particle interactions in the Sun’s protoplanetary disc?  A) The particles collided with one another violently.  B) The particles all traveled in the same direction.  C) The particles rubbed against one another.  D) The particles were pulled together by turbulence.6. The word “matches” in the passage is closest in meaning to  A) agrees with  B) supports  C) challenges  D) adds to7. According to paragraph 3, all of the following are true about chondrules EXCEPT:  A) They were very small pieces of material found in the disc around the young Sun.  B) They were formed from material that melted at very high temperatures.  C) They caused radioactive elements to be released from a supernova.  D) They played a significant role in the formation of larger pieces of material within the Sun’s protoplanetary disc.8. Paragraph 3 suggests which of the following about iron-60 and aluminium-26 in the proto-solar system?  A) They are both materials that tend to stick together.  B) They both originated from the same large source star.  C) They were both present in the gas cloud before the Sun’s formation began.  D) They were both released into the proto-solar system at the same time.9. According to paragraph 3, why is the timing of the arrival of iron-60 in the proto-solar system significant?  A) It provides evidence in favor of the theory that a nearby supernova had a role in the formation of the solar system.  B) It provides information about the force of the winds that blew away a very large star’s outer layers.  C) It suggests that the formation of the solar system began earlier than scientists once believed.  D) It shows that the presence of aluminium-26 was not enough to cause the collapse of the gas cloud.10. Which of the following most accurately describes the relationship of paragraph 4 to paragraph 3?   A) Paragraph 4 explains why the hypothesis discussed in paragraph 3 is most likely inaccurate.   B) Paragraph 4 provides additional data to support the argument introduced in paragraph 3.   C) Paragraph 4 discusses a possible alternative to the hypothesis introduced in paragraph 3.   D) Paragraph 4 describes conditions under which the hypothesis in paragraph 3 would be true.11. The word “rival” in the passage is closest in meaning to   A) new   B) competing   C) interesting   D) popular12. According to paragraph 4, which of the following is a weakness in the explanation proposed by Rodriguez and colleagues?   A) A star of the required size was unlikely to contain the right proportion of isotopes.   B) Stars that are six times more massive than the Sun are statistically unusual.   C) It is unlikely that a star of the required size would be close enough to the Sun.   D) Much of the material in the solar system would have been blown away by a star coming very close to it.13.Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   
   Several important steps were involved in their formation.   
   Where would the sentence best fit?14.Prose Summary   Scientists have attempted to explain the formation of the rocky planets in the solar system.   
   Answer Choices:   A) Fine particles of dust released from the formation of the Sun settled around it in a disc and eventually stuck together to form the innermost planets.   B) The young Sun was extremely hot and blew away much of the radioactive materials that surrounded it, leaving behind only rocky particles.   C) Electric forces resulting from the rubbing together of particles in the Sun’s protoplanetary disc caused pieces of material to move in the same direction.   D) Heat from certain radioactive materials may have increased the tendency of particles in the Sun’s protoplanetary disc to stick together.   E) Evidence from meteorites suggests that a nearby supernova created the special conditions that existed during the formation of the solar system.   F) Several theories have been proposed to explain the formation of radioactive materials during supernova explosions.