1.	What is the lecture mainly about?
A.	New recording technology used to study infant cries
B.	Research that has shed light on when humans begin to learn
C.	The discovery that infants are capable of producing different vowel sounds
D.	Evidence that supports a traditional theory of language learning
 
2.	Why does the professor mention sitting in a dorm room and hearing noises from down the hall?
A.	To show how random sounds interfere with speech production
B.	To illustrate how researchers are able to work with limited data
C.	To explain how infants‘ cries are often perceived
D.	To describe how a fetus hears speech through its mother‘s abdominal wall

3.	What points does the professor make about prosody?   Click on 2 answers
A.	Voices of different speakers can be distinguished based on their prosodic features
B.	Mothers tend to mimic the prosody of their infants
C.	Infants learn prosody after they have learned vowel sounds
D.	Different languages have different prosodic features.

4.	What does the professor say about the three-month-old infants?
A.	They have the ability to imitate vowel sounds
B.	They can distinguish between vowels and consonants
C.	They tend to cry with falling intonation
D.	They tend to cry if they do not recognize a speaker‘s voice.

5.	According to the professor, what did researchers conclude after analyzing the recordings of crying newborns?
A.	The amount of air in the lungs determines the pitch of a newborn‘s cry
B.	Most newborns cry with rising intonation.
C.	A newborn can control the pitch and volume of its cries
D.	The loudness of a newborn‘s cry is related to whether or not the mother can hear it.

6.	The professor mentions the possibility that infants in the crying  study  learned the prosodic features of their native language after they were born. What is her view of this idea?
A.	It explains the behavior of only one group of infants in the study.
B.	It is not a likely explanation of the findings reported in the study.
C.	It has been completely ruled out by the findings of a more recent study
D.	It is the hypothesis that is currently best supported by evidence.

