1.	What is the main purpose of the lecture?
A.	To compare the composition of the Moon with the composition of Earth.
B.	To explain the significance of Moon samples obtained by Apollo astronauts.
C.	To discuss theories about the early development of the solar system.
D.	To discuss problems with explanations for the origin of the Moon.

2.	What is one point the professor makes about the capture theory?
A.	It accounts for the difference in composition between Earth and the Moon.
B.	It lost popularity when the fission theory was proposed.
C.	It is based on the assumption that Earth‘s gravitational force has remained constant.
D.	It was challenged by the Apollo findings.

3.	What assumption do the giant impact theory and the fission theory have in common?
A.	The Moon increased in size after its formation.
B.	The Moon was formed from part of Earth.
C.	The young Earth rotated very slowly.
D.	The young Earth collided with another planetary object.
 
4.	According to the professor, how do astronomers who support the giant impact theory explain the Moon‘s lack of iron?
A.	Excess iron was ejected into space during the impact.
B.	Earth‘s outer layer never contained iron.
C.	The impact happened after Earth‘s iron moved to its core.
D.	The Moon lost its iron when it was struck by meteorites.

5.	According to the professor, what does a computer model of the giant impact suggest?	Click on 2 answers
A.	The object that hit Earth had a mass similar to that of Mars.
B.	The Moon was formed during the late stages of Earth‘s formation.
C.	A single impact could not have produced a Moon lacking in iron.
D.	Earth‘s rotation rate changed after the impact.

6.	What is the professor‘s attitude about the giant impact theory?
A.	He is confident that the questions it raises will soon be answered.
B.	He hopes it will be replaced by a new theory in the near future.
C.	He favors it for its consistency with a concept of planet formation.
D.	He thinks it was accepted too quickly by the scientific community.
