1. What is the lecture mainly about?
  A) Reasons that the reintroduction of a native Australian grass species is being encouraged
  B) Reasons that nonnative crop species have always been preferred in Australian agriculture
  C) Plans to introduce more nonnative grass species into Australia
  D) The advantages of mixing native and nonnative species in Australian grasslands

2. Why did early experts have a poor opinion of native Australian grasses? (no recording)
  A) They noticed that native grasses tended to crowd out nonnative species.
  B) They found that native grasses had little nutritional value for grazing animals.
  C) The native grasses they observed had been damaged by grazing animals.
  D) The native grasses they studied had been weakened by unusually dry weather.

3. What does the professor imply is a characteristic of nonnative grasses that has limited their success in Australia? (no recording)
  A) They require a more acidic soil than most native plants.
  B) They are poorly adapted to periods of dry weather.
  C) They are slow to recover after periods of flooding.
  D) They are the preferred food of most grazing animals.

4. What difference between weeping grass and more familiar kinds of rice does the professor emphasize? (no recording)
  A) Weeping grass requires less space to grow.
  B) Weeping grass tends to grow much more quickly.
  C) Grains of weeping grass tend to be much longer.
  D) Grains of weeping grass are higher in protein.

5. What attitude does the professor express when she discusses the use of weeping grass as a cereal crop? (no recording)
  A) She is excited by the commercial success that weeping grass has achieved as an export crop.
  B) She is hopeful that weeping grass will make an important agricultural contribution in Australia.
  C) She is worried that foods made from weeping grass may taste strange to many consumers.
  D) She is concerned that the cost of weeping grass will make it unprofitable as an export crop.

6. What are two characteristics of weeping grass that improve its ability to survive? [choose two answers] (no recording)
  A) It produces more seeds than most other grassland species.
  B) It grows back quickly after being grazed upon.
  C) It can grow in acidic soil.
  D) It has deep roots.
