#article
Professional Director for Spring Musical

Usually, the spring musical, the largest theatrical production of the year, is directed by students. This year, however, the university has hired a professional theater director, David Franks, to direct the show. Mr. Franks has directed many plays during his long, distinguished career in the theater. University officials think the theater students who sing, dance, and act in the show will learn a lot from working with an accomplished director. Additionally, university officials believe that a professional director will attract larger student audiences. According to one official, more students will come to see the show because they've heard of Mr. Franks before they'll recognize his name.


#record
Man: Hey Paula, you usually act in these productions. What do you think about this decision?
Woman: I don’t like it at all.
Man: But you’re a theatre major, so wouldn’t this benefit you?
Woman: How can it if the guy they hired already has a busy career? He’s already directing several other shows in the city and from what I hear he’ll only be on campus like once a week.
Man: Ok. That’s not much time.
Woman: I mean, I’m in this show and I’m afraid we’ll be left to work on the songs and practice the dances all by ourselves. This new director just won’t be able to give the show his full attention.
Man: Hm.
Woman: We’d be much better off with a student directing because a student can hold rehearsals more often. I mean, there’s no point of practicing if the director isn’t actually present. You don’t get as much out of it.
Man: Well, there is that other benefit to hiring him.
Woman: You mean getting more people to go? Actually, I think the university is wrong there too.
Man: But isn’t the guy pretty famous?
Woman: Sure, famous in his field, in the world of the theatre. Students like me who love musical theatre, we know him. But the average student has no idea who he is, has never even heard of him.
Man: Yea, actually I’ve never heard of him before myself.

#question
The woman expresses her opinion about the change proposed in the announcement. Briefly summarize the change. Then state her opinion about the change and explain the reasons she gives for holding that opinion.

