1. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.A) In hindsight, "Great Depression in Trade and Agriculture" is an inaccurate label since world production and levels of foreign investment rose during these decades.B) During the decades of the Great Depression in Trade and Agriculture, many Europeans were very unhappy with the state of their economy.C) It is surprising that so many Europeans were depressed during a period of continuing economic expansion and investment in industrial production.D) Even though the Great Depression in Trade and Agriculture saw a rise in world production and foreign investment, it was an economically difficult time for many Europeans.2. In paragraph 1, the author states that "By the 1890s, the price of wheat had fallen to only one-third of what it had been in the 1860s" toA) explain why the great depression did not affect people's ability to buy foodB) establish the extent to which farming was affected during the great depressionC) explain why labor costs declined so much by the 1890sD) provide evidence that by the 1890s agriculture was less profitable than trade3. According to paragraph 2, which of the following caused the downturn in the European agricultural economy?A) Many peasants and agricultural laborers moved into factory work, causing a labor shortage.B) Landowning peasants did not have sufficient funds to grow large amounts of grain.C) Many people moved into the region and agricultural production could not keep up.D) Competition with large amounts of grain from the United States and Ukraine lowered prices for grain grown in Europe.4. According to paragraph 3, which of the following was largely a result of the growth of the railway system?A) A 500 percent increase in industrial productionB) The combining of European economiesC) A decrease in the amount of land used for farmingD) Increased peasant discontent with the Industrial Revolution5. According to paragraph 4, which of the following was NOT one of the key developments that shaped the Second Industrial Revolution?A) Scientific and industrial innovations transformed agriculture, both in terms of production and distribution.B) Advances in the production of steel boosted shipbuilding, construction, and railroads.C) Developments in chemistry produced new synthetic dyes and improved fertilizer production and petroleum refining.D) The invention of lightbulb and the electromagnetic generator led to a surge in energy production.6. The word "durable" in the passage is closest in meaning toA) affordableB) long-lastingC) availableD) valuable7. Which of the following can be inferred from paragraph 4 about the origin of the Second Industrial Revolution?A) It was based on advances in the sciences.B) It was based on new industrial processes developed in Britain.C) It was based mainly on an expansion of the railroad, shipping and construction industries.D) It was based on technologies that produced consumer goods and services less expensively.8. The word "posed" is closest in meaning toA) presentedB) predictedC) renewedD) intensified9. The word "hastened" in the passage is closest in meaning toA) requiredB) includedC) hurriedD) prolonged10. According to paragraph 6, companies adopted which of the following ways to increase their profits?A) Finding cheaper sources of raw materialsB) Expanding into new industriesC) Selling off their weaker product linesD) Organizing their businesses in new ways11. The word "courteous" in the passage is closest in meaning toA) politeB) attractiveC) knowledgeableD) persuasive12. It can be inferred from paragraph 7 that department stores were developed with the idea thatA) low prices were more important to customers than high qualityB) a middle-class customer could be encouraged to spend as much money as a wealthy customerC) customers’ needs should determine what stores offered for saleD) making shopping pleasurable would increase profits13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.   As a result, more and more consumers were needed to purchase those products.   Where would the sentence best fit?14. Prose Summary   From 1873 until the mid-1890s, Europe experienced an economic downturn known as the Great Depression in Trade and Agriculture.   Answer Choices:   A) The Great Depression in Trade and Agriculture had a number of causes, including trade deficits, agricultural surpluses, the vertical integration of industries, and lower wages for workers.   B) The Industrial Revolution led to increased production and cheaper transport of manufactured and agricultural products, which flooded the markets with goods and drove profits down.   C) The trend toward increased governmental regulation was resisted by a few countries in which profits maintained their pre-depression levels.   D) The formation of cartels allowed retailers to offer a vast array of goods at low prices to customers who were encouraged to buy them in the pleasant surroundings of department stores.   E) Improved technology and scientific breakthroughs created new industries that resulted in a Second Industrial Revolution.   F) National governments introduced tariffs in an attempt to protect their markets and producers, and businesses organized themselves to gain greater control or prices at all levels of production.