1. The word "recognized" in the passage is closest in meaning toA) suspectedB) arguedC) assumedD) accepted2. According to paragraph 1, which of the following was true of small planktonic organisms at the end of the Cretaceous?A) They lost their sources of food.B) They developed calcareous shells.C) They decreased greatly in number as did many other types of organisms.D) They replaced other minute organisms as a food source in the major marine food chain.3. Which of the following statements is NOT supported by the information provided in paragraph 2 about extinctions at the end of the Cretaceous?A) About 35 percent of mammal species were lost.B) 79 percent of North American plants disappeared.C) Most birds, tortoises, and crocodiles escaped extinction.D) Deciduous trees were especially likely to go extinct.4. According to paragraph 2, which of the following factors probably contributed to the extinction of the dinosaurs?A) The length of time it took dinosaurs to reproduceB) Large quantities of dead material disturbed their habitatsC) Increased competition for food from scavengersD) An increase in carnivore populations5. In paragraph 2, why does the author provide the information that "there is a record of a beetle larva living in dead wood for over 40 years before becoming an adult" ?A) To help explain why insects were less likely to go extinct than other speciesB) To show that not all species that relied on trees disappeared during the late CretaceousC) To suggest that insects that lived long ago had much longer life spans than those living todayD) To support the claim that conditions at the end of the Cretaceous were highly unfavorable6. The word "simultaneously" in the passage is closest in meaning toA) rapidlyB) repeatedlyC) at the same timeD) for different reasons7. According to paragraph 3, which of the following is true of plankton after the extinctions at the end of the Cretaceous?A) Diatoms and dinoflagellates suddenly became very rare.B) Single-celled types of plankton were replaced by more complicated microorganisms.C) The plankton found in later deposits are closely related to single-celled Late Cretaceous microorganisms.D) The only types of Late Cretaceous plankton to survive extinction were those protected by cysts.8. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.A) The fern spike is the term given to this sudden increase in the abundance of fern spores blown into the oceans around the world.B) The sudden increase in fern spores occurred in exactly the same parts of the world where the plankton was disappearing.C) Fern spores have even been found in some marine deposits from exactly the same layer as that showing the disappearance of the plankton.D) Most marine deposits from around the world contain either plankton or a lot of fern sports but not both together in the same layer.9. The word "dismissed" in the passage is closest in meaning toA) further exploredB) rejectedC) completely revisedD) replaced10. The word "elevated" in the passage is closest in meaning toA) highB) varyingC) unusualD) adequate11. According to paragraph 4, what evidence is there that an asteroid hit Earth?A) The fact that the metals nickel and chromium were found at sites around the worldB) The presence in K/T boundary deposits of large amounts of a metal that is found in meteoritesC) The fact that iridium amounts decreased at the same time that the Cretaceous ended and the Tertiary beganD) The differences in the types of metals found in deposits in Italy, Denmark, and New Zealand12. Paragraph 4 suggests which of the following about the Alvarezes’ theory?A) Their theory was accepted until 1980, when more focused investigations showed it to be incorrect.B) It rules out the possibility that the iridium spike was the result of volcanic activity.C) Before it can be accepted, more evidence must be gathered from locations outside Europe and New Zealand.D) Experts believe the research done by the Alvarezes was too broad.13. Look at the four squares [] that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.This change in plankton found in marine deposits is what marks the boundary between the Cretaceous and the Tertiary.Where does the sentence best fit?14. Prose SummaryMany life forms, from microorganisms to the dinosaurs, became extinct at the end of the Cretaceous.Answer Choices:A) Aside from the dinosaurs, most of the organisms affected were very small, such as single-celled plankton and insects.B) Herbivores and carnivores were both affected, but the hardest-hit group was the scavengers, including many birds and some mammals.C) Two major food chains were eliminated, one in the ocean based on plankton, and one on land based on leaves.D) Examinations of marine and terrestrial deposits show clearly that ocean extinctions occurred well before those on land.E) In geological samples from around the world, the K/T boundary is marked by a sudden change in plankton and by a spike in fern spores.F) Sudden, high levels of iridium found at the K/T boundary suggest that a meteorite might have caused the extinctions.