

Student: Hi, um, I‘m looking for information on temporarily jobs. Something just for the summer. Would you have any information about that?

Employee: We do¡­but you realize that most of what we do here is to help graduating seniors find permanent entry level positions? Let‘s see¡­are you, are you looking for on campus or off campus work?

Student: Actually, I work on campus in the cafeteria now, but it‘s only a part time job. About 15hours a week. I was hoping to find something a little more, um¡­

Employee: Well, with a few more hours.

Student: Right, I‘ve asked for more hours in the cafeteria but they don‘t have anything available so now I‘m here.

Employee: And an off campus job would be okay?

Student: Sure, I mean, if anything is available.

Employee: Okay, well, one thing I can suggest you do is register for the job fair coming up in a couple of weeks.

Student: The job fair? I thought that was only for graduates looking for permanent jobs.

Employee: You‘re right, most of the companies they will be looking to hire recent graduates for permanent jobs, but there will be a few that are trying to hire students for summer work. There are also usually some internships advertised there. The pay is okay and they are full time and you might even be able to get some academic credit as long as it relates to your major...which is?

Student: Biology.

Employee: So, I assume that you do a lot of work in the laboratory?

Student: Some, yea.

Employee: That‘s great. There will be some companies and maybe a couple hospitals at the job fair looking for biology majors for summer internships, especially those with lab experience.

But you know, keep your eyes open. A lot of jobs can qualify as internships even if they don‘t have the word "intern" in the title as long as the work is somehow related to your major. Of course, there is some paperwork involved: getting it OKed by your department, and getting your advisors signature.

Student: So, even if I‘m doing¡­I don‘t know¡­some sort of office work, I can get class credit?

Employee: That can be the case..not always, but¡­

Student: I guess an internship would be okay, but I don‘t want to limit myself. I‘ll take anything. It‘s just for the summer, but as far as on campus jobs¡­

Employee: Ok, you understand that with so few students on campus during the summer there‘s really no need...

Student: For anybody to hire more workers.

Employee: It would be very difficult to find anything.

Student: Ok. Do you have a list of who is going to be hiring at the fair?

Employee: Sure. I have a list of the companies and the positions they are hiring for.

