
Let‘s review the basics of what we covered on Friday. There‘s only a limited supply of resources like oil and coal, but we will never run out of wind. It‘s abundant and there is so much potential associated with this resource. It‘s an environmentally friendly way to generate electricity, so harnessing wind energy is being touted as a direction we need to be heading in to satisfy our future global energy needs. And we looked in depth at the standard model for harvesting wind energy: propeller wind turbines. Here is the drawing of a propeller wind turbine again.

Now as I mentioned Friday, nearly all wind farms use this type of turbine. You can‘t really miss that distinct three propeller design. But today I want to present an alternative type: the vertical axis wind turbine. So, here‘s a vertical axis wind turbine. 

Now, if you‘ve seen one propeller turbine, you‘ve basically seen them all, but with vertical axis turbine there‘s a huge variety in design. 

Now I chose to start with this particular model for a reason. Crews will be installing it in the grounds near the architecture hall. They will be putting up 40 of them at differing heights, starting today. When they are all up, the electricity they generate will power more than 50% of the exterior lights on our campus. 

Now, my engineering department colleagues and I found that some members of the university planning committee were opposed to the installation idea, at least initially. One of their big concerns was that it would negatively impact the aesthetics of the campus. However, once this particular model was officially presented, well, those members quickly came around to share our point of view. To me, this particular model looks more like moving sculpture than an intrusive eyesore. Its design blends well with the surrounding landscape and architecture. Some other models definitely weren‘t attractive. Anyway, once they go up and you‘ve seen them I‘d be interested to hear what you think. But this wouldn‘t be the engineering department if all we did was consider the aesthetics of technology.

So, both vertical axis and propeller turbines will work fine with midrange wind. But one feature that makes any model of vertical axis turbine preferable to a propeller turbine is its ability to function in a wide range of wind conditions. It can generate electricity by efficiently capturing low speed winds, say near 12 mile per hour. And it also operates well in turbulent, gusty winds: storm force winds. Propeller turbines just can‘t efficiently handle winds on these two opposite ends of the spectrum.

And you know, when we are considering a residential or an urban setting, let‘s face it, space is usually at a premium. It is a valuable, limited commodity. Unfortunately though, when you have a group of propeller turbines at a wind farm they undergo a decrease in power output the closer they are placed to one another, so they have to be spread out. They require a substantial amount of space. Vertical axis turbines, however, can be placed in close proximity to one another. Consequently, you can reduce the plot of land needed and fit more turbines on it. Ultimately then, they overcome the biggest constraint faced by wind farms.

Now there‘s a study that, well, strangely enough we are learning ways we might continue to increase the efficiency of turbines by observing schools of swimming fish. See when a fish moves its tail back and forth to achieve forward propulsion it obviously moves the water around it back and forth, and this motion effects nearby fish. And we‘ve noticed that fish arrange themselves, they space themselves, in relationship to one another to take advantage of the back and forth motion of the water caused by the others. In other words, they arrange themselves into strategic configurations which make the forward motion of the group most efficient. 

Now the fish study has provided insight into how a vertical axis turbine effects the air around it for nearby turbines, and the implication is that there could be a significant increase in efficiency if we change the way we set up wind farms. Now currently, wind farms are configured so that all turbines in a group rotate in the same direction, but what if we set up vertical axis turbines in alternating rows? I mean, so that one row of turbines spins in one direction and the next row spin in the opposite direction? So¡­clockwise and then counter clockwise? This idea is now being tested in the field.
