
Professor: So, we will be examining the architecture of Frank Lloyd Wright and the philosophy behind his design. For Wright the idea for each buildings structure had to evolve form, and be in harmony with, its site, unique geographical qualities of its particular environment. This was the essence of the philosophy he developed called organic architecture. 

Out of all of his buildings he designed perhaps the most significant embodiment of that philosophy is the building known as "Falling Water¡". Here it is. 

Falling Water is located on a steep wooded site and you can see it‘s actually positioned on the bank on the stream, above a waterfall. The huge, kind of flat boulders you see there? The water flows over them and above them are balconies that extend on the house. You can walk out onto them. Both the floor of the balconies and the sides of the balconies are concrete. So given Wright‘s approach, how did the environment, nature specifically, play a role in this historic residence?

Well, the first way was as the source for the building materials. Wright wanted the house to feel as if it was growing out of the very landscape that surrounded it. Consequently, all of the supporting walls were built using local stone from a quarry Wright opened specifically for the house only 500 feet away, and those local stones were also used on the floors inside the house. 

And with stone, well, nature serves another role. It actually provided the physical foundation for the overall structure. You see, rather than building the foundation Wright designed Falling Water so it actually rests on, is anchored by, several boulders on the stream bank. And one of those gigantic stones actually rises up and through the middle of the living room.

Female Student: So it actually comes through the floor?

Professor: Yes, Wright chose to keep that one visible. A powerful way he consciously brought the outside in and made it a focus. The boulder serves as a constant reminder of nature‘s power and presence.

Male Student: Ok, but uh, if we‘re are talking about nature‘s role¡­I mean, I‘m really amazed by the effect of the big balconies but they are made of concrete. What is natural about that?

Professor: True, but that brings us to another influence of nature, as visual inspiration. What do the balconies remind you of? Think about the imagery that is created here.

Male Student: Well, now that I think about it¡­visually they do create an effect that¡­I mean¡­the balconies are long, rectangular and flat and they are kind of stacked like those slabs of rock beneath them. It‘s like they mimic or mirror the rocks that the waterfall spills down over.

Professor: Yes. And Wright was intent on creating effects like that. 

Another example, I mentioned the stone floors. Those floors have an uneven textured surface. They are waxed and highly polished so they are shiny and reflective. This achieves an intriguing effect. Inside the house it actually looks as though there is moving river water running over the floor stones.

Female Student: Well, the building‘s name is Falling Water.

Professor: Exactly right. So, again, it‘s nature‘s role as the visual inspiration. 

Now, I‘m glad you brought up the balcony because that moves our focus to nature as an obstacle. Wright really had work against the force of gravity here. Those heavy concrete balconies extend out well beyond the house, and incredible amount of weight to support. To address this, Wright used reinforced concrete.

Female Student: Reinforced?

Professor: Yea, steel rods were placed inside concrete of the balcony floor for strength. Fairly common now, but at that time, Falling Water was completed in 1957, this was a relatively new experimental technology. 

Now over the past 70 years reports have surfaced that the lead engineer infuriated Wright by insisting that the number of steel bars be doubled, to twice as many as Wright had planned. However, the outcome of the story wasn‘t confirmed until recently with the use of radar. It looks like the engineer won after all, and according to structural experts who have actually had to make repairs to the building it was a good thing because that single decision has made a huge difference in the balconies‘ longevity. 

Female Student: You say repairs. What has had to be done?

Professor: Most people aren‘t aware of the fact that a lot of work has been done to address water problems throughout the house. Wright didn‘t design adequate drainage for all those horizontal surfaces. I mean, as I see it, Wright celebrated water and incorporated its beauty but he should have taken full consideration of its strength.

