Professor: So Amy, uh the department has received a grant to develop a water management program in the local community and part of the program is to hire undergraduates and well, and environmental studies majors are our first choice. Sound interesting?

Student: Sounds great, actually. And the timing is perfect. I just told the people at my current job that I would be quitting next week. I‘ve been delivering pizza part time.

Professor: I think you‘ll find this more interesting than delivering pizza.

Student: Actually, delivering pizza is kind of interesting. You meet all kinds of people.

Professor: I knew there was a reason I thought of you for this program.

Student: What do you mean?

Professor: What you just said. Sounds like you are comfortable working with people, with the public.

Student: I guess.

Professor: That‘s a skill you‘ll need because this job is mostly about people.

Student: Okay.

Professor: The whole point of the program is to educate the local community about the importance of protecting the watershed. You remember our discussion about watersheds in class?

Student: Yes, of course. How all the water that collects in an area will eventually flow into the same body of water downstream.

Professor: Yea, you got it. That‘s watershed.

Student: And you talked about how all it takes is one contaminated stream in a watershed to affect the water quality downstream.

Professor: Exactly, but other than industrial pollution from factories and so on, a major concern is runoff pollution from communities, residential neighborhoods.

Student: Runoff. Okay. When water doesn‘t soak into the ground. I remember you talking about fertilizers and stuff people use on their lawns and gardens.

Professor: Exactly. Chemical fertilizers and pesticides and other pollutants that result from everyday activity. They all get washed into streams with the rainwater. Did you know that rainwater eventually picks up the oil on roads and parking lots and often that oil goes straight into a river or lake?

Student: It sounds like a big problem.

Professor: It is. That‘s why we were hoping you might be willing to help spread the word, especially about those chemical fertilizers and pesticides. People tend to overuse them so we really want them to understand the consequence.

Student: Ok. So would it be like going door to door, handing out brochures?

Professor: Yea. Brochures. But mainly talking to people. People need to understand how important it is to protect the watershed and we want to show them how to do that. Like, teach alternative gardening techniques. Explain how to use less fertilizer, or less harmful types of fertilizers and pesticides. That‘s the education part.

Student: So, is there more?

Professor: That‘s the bulk of the job, but I know you‘ve collected water samples for my class. Before we even get started, we need to examine the quality of the local streams to determine just how contaminated they are. So you‘ll get some more practical experience too, in the lab and we will continue the monitor to creek to measure how the quality of the water improves over time. It‘s a long term project.

