Now during the heyday of the Roman Empire, say the first 350 years or so starting around 27BCE, Rome was the political and economic center of Europe. And needless to say, its emperors controlled a lot of wealth. One of the ways in which they used their wealth was by building dozens of villas. Massive country homes throughout Italy and South Eastern Europe. And while they were impressive, with temples, libraries, baths, gardens, and outdoor pools, these imperial villas were about quite a bit more than just impressing people. One practical purpose was to give the emperors a place to escape from the heat of Rome‘s summers. 

In the 18th century when people first started excavating some of these villas, it was basically just treasure-hunters, people looking to get wealthy by unearthing marble sculptures, frescos, that sort of thing. But it was only through more serious excavations beginning in the 19th century that archaeologists first began to develop a more detailed picture of these estates. Some of the artwork they found gives us a window into the differences between the official and private lives of the emperor. 

In the villa of Tiberius, an early emperor, in his villa on the Mediterranean coast near Naples, archaeologists found a lot of marble fragments which when put together turned out to be a group of massive marble sculptures of creatures out of Roman mythology. It‘s the kind of storytelling scene you might not see in the city of Rome itself. Sculpture in the city was all about glorifying the emperor, but in the country emperors were able to experiment more.

And experiment they did! The Emperor Hadrian‘s villa, for instance, contains examples of many different architectural styles. Hadrian was one of the most well-travelled emperors and these was reflected in his villa. He built a large complex that included baths and bath buildings, libraries, sculpture gardens, theatres, and temples in Egyptian, Greek, and Roman styles.

Villas also served an economic purpose. 

Many were self-supporting working farms. They planted grain and some had vineyards and produced wine. These villas were less like summer homes and more like estates where hundreds of people could live and work. There is one in particular I want to mention that belonged to the emperor Diocletian who ruled at the end of the 3rd and into the 4th century CE. When archaeologists first looked around Diocletian‘s estate, which is located in modern day Croatia, they found an aqueduct design to carry water to the villa. But it seemed much too big just to be supplying a residence. This got them interested so they took a closer look at the area around the villa and found that it was ideal for making fabric.

We know that there were lots of sheep in the surrounding hills at the time, and the local water had sulfur in it which is good for making dyes. So, by piecing together this information about the environment around the villas as well as the size of the aqueduct we can pretty safely assure that Diocletian‘s estate was the site of a textile factory, one that probably employed thousands of people. 

And going back to Tiberius‘ villa there archaeologists found several rectangular depressions filled with sea water. At first we thought they were just decorative pools which you see in many Roman estates. But when we took a closer look it turns out there were little round holes stamped into the sides of the pools. These holes would be the perfect size for fish to lay their eggs in. So it looks like these pools were actually a fish farm and it would have produced enough to feed everyone in the villa. Maybe even though to supply fish markets in Rome. 

Now, right from the beginning of the Roman Empire there were land owners who also built villas. They built big estates with farm or factories to generate income. And eventually there were all of these villas out in the country each with quite a bit of economic power. And with such strong economies in the villas, power became decentralized. It‘s possible that as the villas expanded and the political situation of Rome got more and more unstable, these high producing estates might have actually contributed to the decline of the Empire.


