#article
The Eurasian beaver was once common throughout Europe and Asia but was hunted nearly to extinction. Recently, humans have reintroduced beavers to many of their former habitats by releasing the animals and allowing them to live and reproduce in the wild again. In England, however, the idea of reintroducing beavers has met with strong opposition. The opponents of reintroduction cite several reasons that beavers should not be released in England.

First, beavers use wood to build dams in rivers and streams partially blocking the flow of water and creating ponds (small areas of still water). Because dams form barriers in the water, they can prevent migrating fish from moving through a river or stream. Some fish species must migrate in order to reproduce. Critics argue that beaver dams will lower fish populations by preventing fish from migrating to their breeding grounds.

Second, farmers are concerned about the effects of beaver reintroduction on farmland. Beavers sometimes burrow into riverbanks, digging holes below ground. This can weaken the surface of the ground above and lead to collapse and erosion (loss of soil). Over time, erosion can decrease the amount of farmland available near rivers and stream. It can even lower soil quality by allowing the best soil to be washed away. This loss of soil could interfere with farmers' ability to produce crops.

Third, beavers have powerful teeth that they use to chew through wood, and they sometimes chew through tree trunks, cutting down and killing trees. Trees are vital to many of England's ecosystem; they provide habitat, shade, and a food source for different animals. Losing trees to beavers could seriously disrupt England's other wildlife.

#record
Now listen to part of a lecture on the topic you just read about

(male professor) The concerns raised in the reading not as problematic as they may seem at first. Reintroducing beavers in England will actually provide many benefits.

First, it's not necessarily true that beaver dams will harm fish populations. You see, beavers don't build dams in every river and stream, so there will still be some rivers and streams that migrating fish will be able to use to reach their breeding grounds. What's more, the ponds that beaver dams create, those small areas of still water, are important habitats where young fish can find plenty of food and hide from predators. So the ponds created by beavers actually promote the population growth of some fish species.

Second, it's true that beavers sometimes cause erosion in a few small areas, but the overall effect of beavers is actually to decrease erosion along rivers. You see, erosion of river banks typically happens along rivers and streams that move fast. Beaver dams have the effect of slowing down the rivers on which they're built. Slower moving water causes less river bank erosion. So if beavers return to England, some rivers will move more slowly and we will lose fewer river banks, which means we'll lose less farmland near rivers.

Third, beavers do cut down trees, but not enough to damage the whole ecosystem. In fact, the activity of beavers creates a more interesting more diverse ecosystem. What happens is this: when beavers chop down a few trees in wooded areas, they create small areas of open ground exposed to the Sun. The direct sunlight that reaches the ground encourages the growth of new types of vegetation that couldn't grow in the shade like flowering plants or low shrubs. These new plants attract new species of insects; the new insects attract new species of birds that feed on them and so on. As a result, a whole new ecosystem is created in addition to the one that existed in that area before.
#question
Summarize the points made in the lecture, being sure to explain how they challenge the specific points made in the reading passage.
