1. What does the professor mainly discuss?
  A) The evolution of nonessential behaviors in some animal species
  B) A food-hunting strategy used by herring gulls
  C) A study of how some bird species conserve energy
  D) Evidence that helps support a claim about an animal behavior

2. What does the professor say about the researchers when she discusses the ground over which the drop-catch behavior occurred?
  A) They had marked the ground to determine whether herring gulls stayed in their own territories while drop-catching.
  B) They observed that the area contained fewer sticks and broken shells than live clams.
  C) They were not surprised that most drop-catches occurred over soft ground.
  D) They expected the herring gulls to drop-catch mostly over rocky areas.

3. According to the research, how was drop-catch behavior affected when the weather got colder?
  A) The behavior generally increased because the herring gulls needed to be more active.
  B) The behavior generally decreased because the herring gulls needed to conserve energy.
  C) The behavior occurred more often when other herring gulls were nearby.
  D) The behavior involved a wider variety of objects.

4. What does the professor say about how herring gulls are affected by wind?
  A) On windy days, herring bulls are more likely to engage in drop-catch behavior.
  B) On windy days, herring gulls tend to drop-catch at lower altitudes.
  C) On windy days, it is more difficult for herring gulls to find food.
  D) On windy days, herring gulls wait for longer intervals between each drop-catch.

5. Why does the professor mention mammals such as kittens and monkeys?
  A) To explain the basis for one of the predictions made by the researchers
  B) To suggest that one finding from the research on herring gulls might also be true for mammals
  C) To make a point about the energy required to engage in play behavior
  D) To point out that play behavior in animals does not always involve objects

6. What does the professor imply about the theft detection hypothesis?
  A) She believes that it should be tested independently of other hypotheses.
  B) She used to think it was probably true, but she has changed her mind.
  C) She is surprised that it is so strongly supported by the new research.
  D) Her opinion that it is true has not changed.
