1. What is the lecture mainly about?
  A) Ways that people can improve their ability to self-regulate
  B) The importance of physical activity for achieving optimal brain function
  C) Parts of the brain responsible for certain mental activities
  D) The effect that making choices has on acts of self-regulation

2. Why does the professor mention supermarkets and coffee shops?
  A) To make the point that people today have to make a vast number of choices
  B) To argue that self-control is now more important than ever before
  C) To distinguish between two types of decision making
  D) To describe the settings of the experiments in the study that the class will discuss

3. What did the researchers hypothesize about decision making?
  A) It can be affected by the kinds of food that people eat.
  B) It is involved in the ability to perceive colors.
  C) It uses the same resource that self-regulation does.
  D) It can be improved with repeated and conscious effort.

4. Why does one of the students describe a time he shopped for a cell phone and then tried to solve math problems?
  A) To point out a difference he has noticed between easy and difficult choices
  B) To offer his own support for a key idea of the study that the class is discussing
  C) To express his opinion that carrying out enjoyable activities does not deplete mental resources
  D) To point out what he thinks may be a problem with the experiment the class is discussing

5. In the first experiment described in the discussion, what did the researchers ask the participants to do in order to measure self-regulation?
  A) Solve a series of complex math problems
  B) Consume a liquid with a bad taste
  C) Try to identify the flavors of unlabeled soft drinks
  D) Try to remember all the product categories they had seen on a list

6. What did the researchers learn from the experiment in which the participants were asked to choose gifts for themselves?
  A) Choosing for oneself requires more self-control than choosing for others.
  B) Both self-control and decision making can be influenced through the use of rewards.
  C) Rewards are particularly effective when people choose them for themselves.
  D) Making many decisions depletes mental energy, even if the choices are pleasant ones.
