1. What is the main purpose of the lecture?
  A) To describe the use of head sculpture in Ife rituals
  B) To introduce students to a type of Nigerian artwork
  C) To explain how Ife head sculpture influenced modern African face masks
  D) To compare Nigerian sculpture with ancient Greek and Roman sculpture

2. What does the professor emphasize when he discusses the location of Ife?
  A) People from throughout the region traveled to Ife to buy and sell goods.
  B) Many European artists traveled to Ife to study metalworking.
  C) Ife was built on land that was rich in many types of metals.
  D) Ife was one of several artistic communities in Nigeria.

3. Why does the professor mention construction work near the site of a palace?
  A) To explain how some of the Ife sculpture became damaged
  B) To describe one way in which archaeologists were able to date Ife sculptures
  C) To illustrate the importance of metalworking of Ife culture
  D) To explain how certain Ife artifacts were discovered

4. What is the professor's opinion of the hypothesis that European art influenced Ife art?
  A) Evidence from ancient trade routes suggests that the hypothesis is worth investigating.
  B) Differences in style between European art and Ife art make the hypothesis unlikely.
  C) The hypothesis is strengthened by the Ife sculptures discovered within the last century.
  D) The hypothesis is not supported by the time line suggested by archaeological evidence.
5. What does the professor imply about the holes in the forehead of certain Ife head sculptures?
  A) The holes were used to hang the sculptures by threads.
  B) The holes prevented cracking during the cooling phase of the casting process.
  C) The holes were apparently used to attach objects to the sculpture.
  D) The holes probably represented traditional facial markings of royalty.

6. According to the professor, what was an advantage of lost-wax casting for Ife artists?
  A) The artists were able to create highly detailed sculptures.
  B) The artists could make multiple sculptures from the same mold.
  C) Several different materials could be used to create the molds.
  D) The metal of the resulting sculpture hardened quickly.
