1. What is the main purpose of the lecture?
  A) To argue that most habitat fragmentation is caused by human activity
  B) To discuss an example of habitat fragmentation in the Carboniferous period
  C) To discuss the causes of the Carboniferous rainforest collapse
  D) To explain how the rate of habitat fragmentation can be slowed

2. Why does the professor mention a highway?
  A) To illustrate one way in which a habitat may become divided into separate areas
  B) To imply that urban growth should be carefully planned
  C) To explain how a species becomes more diversified
  D) To contrast how different species adapt to the elimination of a food source

3. What does the professor imply about the hypothesis that the Carboniferous rainforest collapse was caused by climate change?
  A) Research in other rainforest habitats indicates that it is a likely possibility.
  B) Fossil evidence does not support it.
  C) It may soon be disproved by research he himself is conducting.
  D) It is generally thought to be the best explanation available.

4. What points does the professor make about amphibians' eggs? [choose two answers]
  A) Their shells help the eggs to retain moisture.
  B) Their shells are softer than the shells of reptile eggs.
  C) They hatch faster in cool water than in warm water.
  D) They survive only if they are laid in water.

5. According to the professor, what adaptation enabled reptile species to survive after large sections of the rainforest dried up?
  A) They developed the ability to go for long periods of time without eating.
  B) They developed tougher and more water-resistant skin.
  C) They began to consume a wider variety of foods.
  D) Their ability to utilize the water in their food improved.

6. Why does the professor mention the shape of reptiles' teeth?
  A) To explain how researchers drew conclusions about what reptile ate
  B) To explain why some species were more successful than others at capturing food
  C) To illustrate the differences between the teeth of reptiles and those of amphibians
  D) To point out why reptiles could consume food more quickly than amphibians could
