Listen to a conversation between a student and a professor

(man) Hello there, Mia, how are things?
(woman) Pretty good, thanks
(man) That's good to hear. Do you have any travel plans for the summer?
(woman) No, not really, I actually plan on staying around here. This is my hometown you know.
(man) Yes, I know. We don't have a lot of students from around here.
(woman) Well, the Anthropology department is just so great here, the professors, the courses, all the opportunities for field work, couldn't ask for more. Even though I'm still here, in a town I grew up in, I think I made the right choice when I decided to stay here.
(man) I would have done the same thing. So, what can I help you with?
(woman) Actually, I wanted to ask you if I could use you as a reference for a job.
(man) Sure, uh, do you already know, have you applied for one yet?
(woman) No, but, actually, I was thinking about offering my services as a house sitter again; looking after people's plants and pets, keeping an eye on their homes while they are away for the summer.
(man) Right, like you did for me last summer when I was at that excavation site in Mexico.
(woman) I know it's not very exciting but I could use the money.
(man) Well, I'd be happy to recommend you for a job. But wait a minute, let me do you one better. How about, how would you like to work in the Anthropology department this summer?
(woman) Work in the Anthropology department?
(man) Yeah, for me, would you consider working as my assistant? I'll be sticking around this summer, too, working on my book. And I'm on the lookout for an assistant.
(woman) That'd be awesome! And I could still take a house-sitting job. What will I be doing?
(man) Some research in the library, some fact-checking. You're already familiar with the topic because it ties into the research you did for me last spring. I think you'll find he work interesting and the pay's pretty decent. In fact, the grant for the project includes money to pay for an assistant.
(woman) Sounds perfect
(man) Great, um, I have to rush off to a class, but, why don't you stop and see the department's secretary? She could set you up for an appointment next week. We can iron out the details then.
(woman) Sure, well, I'm really glad that I decided to stop by to see you today.
