Listen to part of a lecture in a Biology class. The class is discussing symbiosis

(female professor) Today, we're gonna discuss symbiosis. What's symbiosis? Well, basically, in a symbiotic relationship, organisms of two different species live together. There're three major categories of symbiosis that most biologists recognize. Let's begin with parasitism.

In parasitic relationships, two organisms live together but one organism, that's the parasite, benefits, while the organism, the host, is harmed. Now, when you hear the word parasite, an image of an insect might pop into your head. But insects aren't the only kind of parasite. There are parasitic plants, for example, like mistletoe. Mistletoe's a beautiful plant but it's a parasite. It can grow on a tree and as it grows it drains nutrients from the tree. In fact, mistletoe can kill the tree that it grows on.

Another type of symbiosis is called commensalism. Commensalism is where one organism benefits while the other organism is neither harmed nor benefited. For example, there're certain birds that follow cattle in the fields. And as the cattle graze as they roam the fields looking for vegetation to eat their movement stir up insects from the ground and the birds then eat the insects. So the birds definitely benefit and their activity seem to have no effect either way on the cattle.

Notice I said seem to have no effect. You see, some people say this category shouldn't exist. They say and I tend to agree that if you look hard enough for the commensal relationship, you'd probably find that the second organism, the one not receiving the obvious benefit, is slightly harmed or slightly benefited. According to this view then, when we say a relationship is commensal, we're basically saying we don't know enough about the relationship to classify it as either parasitism or mutualism, which is the third type of symbiotic relationship I want to discuss.

A mutualistic relationship is one where two organisms live together and both benefit. The so-called good bacteria living in our digestive tract, in our intestines, are famous example. They help us in various ways. They digest certain foods for us that our own body's digestive enzyme production can't break down. They also make some B vitamins and they're the primary source of vitamin K, which plays an important role in blood clotting. In return, we basically share our food with the bacteria and provide a home for them.

Now, let me tell you about a really interesting example of mutualism that highlights how complex these relationships can be. It involves a bacterium and a microscopic worm that lives in the soil. This worm is found all over the world and it has a mutualistic relationship with the bacterium called Xenorhabdus.

Xenorhabdus bacteria live in the worm's digestive tract without harming the worm at all. However, if an insect like an ant or a beetle swallow any of these worms, the worms release the bacterium inside the insect and the bacterium enters the insect's bloodstream where it does a few things to the insect. For one thing, it inactivates the insect's immune defenses. So now, the insect can no longer fight off this bacterium. Also, the bacterium generates anti-bacterial compounds that kill all other types of bacteria inside the insect. So now there are no other bacteria to even compete with it.

The bacterium also secretes, uh, releases an insecticide which actually kills the insect. Lastly, the bacterium secretes digestive enzymes, small molecules that break down the insides of the insect into small pieces. So, this bacterium ultimately breaks down the inside organs into really tiny pieces. Meanwhile, the worms reproduce inside the insect's body and their young can feed on the insect, which, thanks to the Xenorhabdus bacteria, has already been digested for them. When the offspring are old enough, they leave the insect behind. But, first, they get a supply of the Xenorhabdus for their own future use on other insect.

So, the worm and the Xenorhabdus have a great mutualistic relationship. The worm gets a food source for its offspring and the Xenorhabdus gets a safe haven inside the worm where it can reproduce plus free transit. So both organisms greatly benefit and neither is harmed. Now, if we take a step back, we'll see something really interesting. You can see that this scenario actually describes a parasitic relationship, too. That is if you look at it from the insect's point of view. The worm benefits, the bacterium benefits, but the insect is actually harmed, right? So this example illustrates the importance of carefully examining these relationships to determine what's happening.