Listen to part of a lecture in a Modern Art class 

(male professor) So I want to remind everyone about our museum trip coming up on Saturday. Unlike previous museums we've visited, this museum is dedicated to the work of just one person. In fact, you'll be reading about him tonight to give you a better sense of what his work encompass. The artist is Isamu Noguchi. Noguchi is a twentieth century Japanese American artist who did sculpture and furniture designs and he had a prolific career spanning more than sixty years. So, right now, since we have a few minutes left in class, let me put them to good use by briefly touching upon what made his art unique.

Noguchi travelled extensively during his life. You know, nowadays everything's very global, of course, but during Noguchi's time, he was born in the early 1900s, this certainly wasn't the norm. Traveling exposed Noguchi to a wide range of cultures and artistic styles. It gave him a unique point of view. He never committed to any one artistic school of thought or group and this gave him a lot of freedom. And this freedom is also manifested in his choice of materials. Just as Noguchi never committed to one artistic school, he never committed to one specific medium.

He used quite a broad variety of materials, clay, wood, steel, you name it. Noguchi refused to be bound by the limitations of a specific material. He experimented with what different materials would allow him to do what they wouldn't. Having different options provided greater possibilities for him to express himself. And in some cases, it seems like people might not have been ready for his experiments. Even though Noguchi was already an established artist, it took him three years to find a gallery that would show his sculptures made from folded sheets of aluminum. At first, Noguchi couldn't get them shown. But since then many artists have used this medium.

Another material that he used in an interesting way was paper. He made paper lanterns. Noguchi developed designs for roughly two hundred different paper lantern sculptures and many of those designs were mass produced for over thirty years. So people could have art in their homes.

(female student) A lantern is definitely useful, but is it really art? Sounds more like a commercial product.

(professor) Sure, but, there's no rule that says there has to be a line between functionality and visual appeal. Art is all about perspective. For Noguchi the lanterns made of paper were essentially packages of light. He took one of Earth's elements, fire, light, and encased it in a fragile shell, kind of a poetic beautiful idea if you think about it through that lens. And these lights really fit with Noguchi's philosophy that sculptures should be useful for a society that it should be accessible to the average person and not just something available only to collectors or institutions such as museums.

(female student) Well, I know that he designed a famous fountain in Detroit for Hart Plaza. My sister lives there and we've been to the Plaza many times. So, would that be an example of what you're talking about?

(professor) Definitely! That fountain's an important part of the Plaza, which is used for a variety of festivals, so, a great example of what Noguchi would call art's usefulness. Now, as much as Noguchi is known for his large outdoor sculptures, he also enjoyed the challenge of small confined spaces. Anyone familiar with Martha Graham?

(male student) Sure, she was a major innovator in the dance world, a dancer and choreographer.

(professor) Well, Noguchi had a life-long professional collaboration with Graham. See, he created the sets for some of her dance troupe's performances.

(male student) What were they like?

(professor) Oh, they were pretty simple. Noguchi designed a variety of things like chairs or sparse architectural silhouettes hinting at the frame of a large house, things that provided faint hints of the storyline to support the dancer's performance. Creating the dance stage sets is how he developed his interest in working on project that required him to create sculpture for a specific space, establishing relationships between the sculpture and the confined surroundings of the stage, exploring exactly how they interacted with one another. See, he enjoyed that challenge, so instead of feeling restricted by the limited amount of space, he actually preferred to have a space constraint imposed upon him whenever possible. It was a rewarding part of the artistic process for him.
