Listen to a conversation between a student and the manager of the university radio station

(woman) Hi, I wanted to ask about the science program I hear sometimes.
(man) You mean Science Hour, the one we air 8 to 9 on Thursday night?
(woman) No, the program I hear a few times a day. It's a minute or two long.
(man) You mean Moment of Science. We broadcast each episode four times daily.
(woman) I heard that sometimes students write them.
(man) That's true, if we approve the topic.
(woman) I was hoping to do that, but I notice that the episodes lately have all been about astronomy, I mean, you are open to other topics, right?
(man) Hmm, it's true we have featured a lot of astronomy lately. Well, for one thing, the Astronomy department has made some major purchases recently. So we did a series of episodes on what all the new instruments in the observatory are used for.
(woman) Right, the episode last week about the Schmitt camera that was really interesting.
(man) And also Professor Collins in the Astronomy department, she offers extra credit to students who write scripts for the show. She even comes down to do the narration sometimes.
(woman) OK, um, what I'd like to do is write a few Moment of Science episodes about the experimental pond, the bio-pond you know over near Haas school dormitory?
(man) Oh, but we just did a big piece on that on Science Hour. A couple of new trails to the pond were cut through the woods, right? And the pond itself was enlarged by twenty five percent. More plants were introduced into the habitat.
(woman) Right. And you interviewed my biology professor about it.
(man) But if we just did an hour-long program, I don't think we could justify going back to the same topic again.
(woman) Oh, nothing would be repeated. It's just that now that the pond's been enlarged, some students have started leading their own research projects there not just assisting the professors'.
(man) I didn't realize, I thought only faculty were allowed to initiate research project.
(woman) Not anymore, like the project I'm working on involves documenting the territorial behavior of the green frogs in the pond.
(man) Green frogs, sounds interesting.
(woman) And another student's looking at the relationship between the growth rate of aquatic plants and the hours of direct sunlight they receive.
(man) OK, those stories should be different enough. Uh, a couple of things to bear in mind then, First, there's a strict word limit. Remember each episode is just two minutes long.
(woman) OK
(man) Second, you'll need to get a professor to sign off on your script before you submit it to us, to verify that the science is accurate. Uh, now, let me print out some topic proposal forms for you.