Listen to part of a lecture in a History class

(female professor) Last time we discussed some of the steps we use in historical research. One is the collection of primary sources, original materials such as letters, documents, objects, from a particular time period. Primary sources serve as evidence from the past, so we need to evaluate our source materials carefully and try to answer some basic questions like when was the material written or made, who wrote it or made it, what is its meaning. And in some cases it can be very difficult to answer these questions. Uh, take the Voynich manuscript.

The Voynich manuscript is a book. The term manuscript indicates that it was written by hand not printed on a printing press. There's quite a mystery surrounding the Voynich manuscript. It's an interesting example of a primary source. OK, so, some background. The manuscript surfaced in 1912 when it was found by an antique book dealer named Wilfrid Voynich. He came across it near Rome while he was looking through a chest of rare books. Voynich tried and tried, for the rest of his life in fact, to figure out the meaning of the manuscript's content. But he just couldn't make any sense of it.

The manuscript appears to be a scientific text, divided into sections like Botany, Biology, Astronomy, but it's filled with writing in a language or code that no one's been able to identify or decipher, though at first glance the characters looked like conventional letters set out in words and sentences. But all attempts by scholars to decipher the text have been unsuccessful. There are also drawings on almost every page. These illustrations are puzzling, too. And they range from astronomical designs to human figures to hundreds of intricate drawings of plants. And most of these plants haven't been identified.

Furthermore, while the Voynich manuscript looks like a book from medieval Europe, this couldn't be confirmed for many years. In fact, some scholars suggested that the Voynich manuscript was actually a hoax that it was created much later, possibly even in the twentieth century. But researchers were recently able to date the pages of the book by using the technique of radiocarbon dating.

See, the manuscript was written on parchment, a material made from animal skin. Uh, the researchers took small samples of the parchment from three or four pages and through radiocarbon dating they were able to determine that the pages had been created sometime between 1404 and 1438. Now, be careful about making assumptions here. The writing and drawings on the pages still could have been made after 1438. The inks, uh, the colors of the inks used in the manuscript, are consistent with colors that were available then. But that's as much as we know about the inks, because the researchers couldn't use radiocarbon dating on them.

For radiocarbon dating, your sample has to contain carbon, right? It has to be organic. But some of these inks were made from minerals. They're inorganic. And for the inks that do contain carbon, there are so little that it would be difficult to distinguish it from the carbon in the pages. But there was another discovery: tests with ultraviolet light have revealed signature on the first page of the manuscript. And it was identified as a signature of a man named Jacobus de Tepenecz. There are other records of Tepenecz's existence, which showed that he died almost four hundred years ago. So, what does that tell us?

Well, if Tepenecz owned the manuscript, which is what we think this signature indicates, then that suggests that the manuscript is not a hoax from a later century. And we know from the records that Tepenecz was a traveling doctor and medicinal plant expert. So it make sense that he'd've been interested in owning the manuscript. Two sections in particular: one that includes over a hundred plant species with the flowers, leaves and roots carefully drawn; and another section featuring drawings of what seemed to be pharmaceutical jars with medicinal herbs and roots accompanied by inscriptions.

Now, researchers actually have identified some of the plants as coming from the Americas, plants that were brought back to Europe by Christopher Columbus. This would, of course, suggests that the writing and the drawings were made not only sometime after the manuscript's pages were made but, in fact, after 1493, when Columbus returned from the Americas for the first time.
