Listen to part of a lecture in a Geology class

(male professor) Today I wanted to show you a picture that, I think, quite dramatically illustrates the rock's sculpting power of nature. This geologic formation is called a hoodoo. Here's one at Bryce Canyon.



Bryce Canyon's a national park in western Utah in the Utah desert just a couple of hundred kilometers from campus actually and it's filled with hoodoos. There are hundreds of these skinny, irregularly shaped rock spires. They range in size from my height to taller than a ten-story building, uh, Karen?

(female student) What causes all those different shades and colors?

(professor) Well, about thirty to forty million years ago, most of western Utah, the whole Bryce Canyon area was under water. It was covered by a gigantic lake. Well, eventually, the lake dried up. And the hoodoos we see today were actually carved out of that ancient dried up lake bed. Color differentiations in hoodoos result from different minerals that had accumulated in sediments at the bottom of the lake. And these sediments built up and solidified under pressure. Now, after the lake dried up, the lake bed, the rock, was exposed to the elements, to weather. Can anyone guess which weathering processes were at work here?

(female student) Uh, it's really dry and windy in Utah. It's a desert environment. Maybe the wind erode the rock?

(professor) Wind is an effective form of erosion for many locations, but not for Bryce Canyon. Actually, the hoodoos are formed by both physical weathering and chemical weathering processes. The first, and most prevalent process, is what's called frost wedging.

Every winter at Bryce Canyon there's something like two hundred freeze-thaw cycles. During the day some of the snow there melts and seeps into cracks in the rock. At night this water freezes again. Because water expands by nearly ten percent when it freezes, the ice eventually pries open the crack wider and wider and finally breaks the rock creating hoodoos over time. And you shouldn't underestimate the power of frost wedging. It's the same process that creates pot holes in the street, you know, pot holes, those gaping holes that can damage your tires if you drive over them, that's frost wedging for you.

In spring time at Bryce Canyon, the primary physical weathering process switches from frost wedging to erosion. Streams of water from snowmelt carry away loosened rock, mush of which was exposed and weakened by all that frost wedging. And in summer time, there are monsoon-like thunderstorms which add to the erosion process.

OK, next is chemical weathering. Chemical weathering happens when minerals in a rock get altered or dissolved by chemical processes. And the chemical weathering at Bryce Canyon comes mainly from acid rain, acid rain which, uh, yes, Karen?

(female student) But wait, last week you said acid rain's caused by air pollution, when stuff like sul, sulfur oxide in the atmosphere turns the rain acidic. But Bryce Canyon has really clean air.

(professor) So, there's no air pollution at all in the desert?

(female student) Yeah

(professor) Well, OK, the air at Bryce Canyon is relatively clean. Nevertheless, there's enough air pollution overall in the region to turn the rain slightly acidic. It contains a weak carbonic acid. This carbonic acid slowly dissolves away the limestone in the hoodoo which is more vulnerable to chemical weathering than siltstone and mudstone, which are also found in hoodoos. So, within a hoodoo you've got this siltstone and mudstone interspersed with limestone, and each rock type dissolving at a different rate, which contributes to the hoodoo's lumpy profiles. And some hoodoos are capped with a magnesium-rich limestone called dolomite, which dissolves at a slow rate from acid rain, while mudstone dissolves quickly and forms the narrowest portion of the hoodoos. 

OK, so, hoodoos are created by weathering processes. But these processes are relentless. They continue to affect the hoodoos. Um, we estimate that Bryce Canyon's hoodoos are shrinking by up to 1.3 meters every hundred years. So, we are pretty lucky to catch Bryce Canyon in this unusually beautiful state. And millions visit the park every year but they are confined to established trails. People aren't allowed to get too close to hoodoos. Just walking up to one, this would actually weaken its foundation.
