1. What two aspects of metallurgy is the discussion mainly about? [choose two answers]
  A) Why it came to be practiced
  B) The types of metals that were used to make prehistoric objects
  C) Ideas regarding how smelting became widespread
  D) Smelting practices in various European communities

2. What point does a student make when he mentions necklace beads?
  A) Prehistoric people considered metal beads to be prettier than beads made from other materials.
  B) Metallurgy probably developed from a desire to create beautiful objects.
  C) It is surprising that relatively few prehistorical beads have been found.
  D) It was probably easier to make beads from metals than from other materials.

3. What point does the science historian Cyril Stanley Smith make about the process of welding?
  A) It was performed in Europe before it was performed in Asia.
  B) It did not exist in prehistoric times.
  C) It spread across Europe and Asia more quickly than the process of smelting did.
  D) It was first employed in the creation of sculptures.

4. The professor discusses finding enough fuel for fire and the right kind of ore for smelting. Why does she discuss this information?
  A) To provide an explanation for why prehistoric people preferred copper over other metals
  B) To assert that smelting is too complex to be explained by the multiple points of origin hypothesis
  C) To show how the technology used to process metals has changed over time
  D) To support the argument that metallurgy originated in Europe rather than in southwest Asia

5. According to the professor, what assumption is the multiple points of origin hypothesis based on?
  A) People from all societies share the same cognitive processes.
  B) Most prehistoric settlements had easy access to large quantities of ore.
  C) Some prehistoric people used metal objects for ritual purposes.
  D) Prehistoric communities were typically situated within a few days' travel of one another.

6. What is the professor's opinion about the diffusion hypothesis?
  A) It makes sense only if prehistoric societies shard similar belief systems.
  B) It explains similarities among prehistoric beads found in Asia and Europe.
  C) It makes sense if smelting was treated as a well-guarded secret.
  D) It is the most logical explanation of how smelting appeared throughout Asia and Europe.

