1. What is the lecture mainly about?
  A) Common china decoration techniques in the nineteenth-century United States
  B) Why china painters were not considered professional artists in the nineteenth-century United States
  C) How china decoration differed from other popular art forms of the nineteenth-century United States
  D) How china decoration became popular in the nineteenth century in the United States

2. According to the professor, what were two reactions to the increase in industrialization in the nineteenth century? [choose two answers]
  A) Artists objected to the poor quality of mass-produced items.
  B) People used their newly found free time to pursue hobbies.
  C) Women became eager to develop professional skills.
  D) People were increasingly critical of art exhibitions.

3. Why does the professor mention inventions of Alexander Graham Bell and Thomas Edison?
  A) To provide examples of how technology influenced art in the nineteenth century
  B) To demonstrate why the Centennial Exhibition was an important event
  C) To suggest that people in the nineteenth century were more interested in technology than art
  D) To explain why the students already should have heard of the Centennial Exhibition

4. What does the professor imply about china painters who did not live in large cities?
  A) They were more likely to study china decoration by reading books.
  B) They were unaware of the widespread popularity of china decoration.
  C) They had more leisure time than painters who lived in cities.
  D) They often invited professional artists to their clubs to teach china painting.

5. According to the professor, how did Adelaide Alsop Robineau differ from other artists of her time?
  A) She was the first woman to paint on china.
  B) She used a new process for painting porcelain.
  C) She both created and painted her own china.
  D) She published several books about china painting.

6. What can be inferred about the professor when he says this:  
  A) He thinks that handcrafted items should not be expensive.
  B) He cares more about the quality of an item than the price.
  C) He does not think that handcrafted items are worth purchasing.
  D) He wonders why machine-made items are so expensive.


