1. What is the lecture mainly about?
  A) Factors that might allow liquid water to exist on planets outside our solar system
  B) Methods that can detect Sun-like stars outside our solar system
  C) A recent discovery about the behavior of dark matter
  D) Types of life forms that might exist on other planets

2. Why does the student talk about how a white dwarf forms?
  A) To demonstrate her familiarity with the life cycle of stars
  B) To speculate about the ultimate fate of the Sun
  C) To suggest a topic to explore in a future class discussion
  D) To question a hypothesis described by the professor

3. What factor makes it relatively easy to detect planets orbiting a white dwarf?
  A) The planets typically reflect a significant amount of light.
  B) The planets block a significant amount of the star's light during transit.
  C) The planets have a higher mass than the white dwarfs that they orbit.
  D) Planets around white dwarfs have very slow orbits.

4. How might particles of dark matter generate heat on a large planet?
  A) By transmitting energy to the planet from nearby stars
  B) By colliding with one another in the center of the planet and releasing energy
  C) By preventing heat from the planet's interior from escaping into space
  D) By colliding with particles of regular matter on the planet's surface

5. What can be inferred about the professor when he discusses dark matter?
  A) He is cautious about accepting some researchers' conclusions given what is known about dark matter.
  B) He is optimistic that current ideas about dark matter will be proven in the near future.
  C) He is hopeful that dark matter can someday be used as a source of energy on Earth.
  D) he is doubtful that dark matter can be studied using ground-based telescopes.

6. At the end of the lecture, what does the professor indicate about planets that could support life?
  A) The current approach to detecting them is very reliable.
  B) They must orbit either a Sun-like star or a white dwarf.
  C) Most of them are probably covered by oceans.
  D) Many of them may be very different from Earth.





