#article
Stonehenge is a prehistoric monument located in southern England. The site features the remains of a ring of giant standing stones and is considered a marvel of ancient construction. The area around Stonehenge was widely used as a burial ground, yet many different theories exist concerning the significance of Stonehenge to ancient people. According to one theory, Stonehenge was believed to be a place of miraculous healing powers. Several findings support this hypothesis.

    Analysis of Teeth
    First, the teeth of several individuals buried at Stonehenge indicate that they traveled there from distant places. Environmental conditions affect tooth enamel, so tooth enamel analysis can reveal where a person used to live. Such analysis has determined that some people buried at Stonehenge once lived far away from England, as far as the Mediterranean. These ancient people must have had an important reason to travel so far. Since it was common in the ancient world to travel long distances in search of healing, the finding supports the theory that Stonehenge was widely renowned as a place of healing.

    Bluestones
    Second, many of the stones that make up the structure at Stonehenge are of a type called “bluestones.” In some ancient cultures, bluestones were associated with healing powers. Importantly, the source of the bluestones seems to be a mountain range located 250 kilometers away from Stonehenge, suggesting that the builders of Stonehenge had to transport the bluestones over great distances. If the builders went to such extraordinary lengths to build Stonehenge specifically out of bluestones, they must have believed the stones were important, and this may have been due to their supposed healing properties.

    Examination of Bones
    Finally, medical examination of the bones of people buried near Stonehenge reveals that a number of them suffered from significant physical injuries before they died. This fact further suggests that people came to Stonehenge hoping for healing and relief from severe pain.


#record
Listen to part of a lecture on the topic you just read about

(female professor) The evidence that Stonehenge was known as a place of healing is not very convincing.

First about tooth enamel, it's true that the teeth of some people buried at Stonehenge indicate that they once lived faraway. But it's entirely possible that these people traveled to England when they were very young. You see, tooth enamel only tells us where a person lived as a child. So the people mentioned in the reading, who came from the Mediterranean, may have traveled to England when they were still young and healthy; they could have lived in England for a long time and become wealthy local citizens who were later buried at Stonehenge simply because their high social class. In fact, these people were often buried with valuable objects such as gold and jewelry, which supports the idea that they were wealthy locals.

Second, geological evidence suggests that bluestones were actually brought to Stonehenge by a natural process and not by people. You see, in the geological past, glaciers, giant sheets of ice, transported stones over great distances and that's probably how bluestones got from a faraway mountain range to Stonehenge. So when the construction of Stonehenge began, bluestones were already there. The builders may have used them not for any healing powers but simply because they were close by.

Finally, about the other set of people mentioned in the reading, those who suffered significant injuries. There's an alternative explanation for their burials at Stonehenge. The bones of these people revealed injuries of a very specific kind: injuries that a soldier might suffer in battle. Moreover, we often find weapons buried alongside these people. So these injured people were probably soldiers who fought bravely in battle and were honored by their community with a burial at Stonehenge. According to this theory, Stonehenge was not a healing place but a place where important people were buried.
#question
Summarize the points made in the lecture, being sure to explain how they cast doubt on the specific points made in the reading passage.
