#article
No Intro Science Requirement

Currently, all students must take an introductory science class in order to graduate. However, there are a limited number of these classes offered, and many students who need to take them, so it is difficult to find available courses to register for. I think the university should eliminate the requirement for students who are not science majors. This would solve the problem for science students like me, who often can’t register for these important classes that we need to take in our first year of studies. Also, non-science students don’t need to take these science courses anyway since they won’t need to use the scientific information in the future.
Sincerely,
Tom Moore

#record
(man) Hey, Sara, did you read this?
(woman) Yeah, but I don’t think it makes much sense, that part about all the students signing up for the courses.
(man) You don’t think it’s a problem?
(woman) It’s definitely an issue, but if the university made one simple change, the situation will improve.
(man) What do you mean?
(woman) Well, they just need to add more classes; have a few sections just for science majors and the rest for general students who are not science majors. It would mean hiring a few more instructors but the university has the money to do that.
(man) Yeah, that might work.
(woman) That way there will be enough space for everyone and science students would have an easier time.
(man) Right, I see what you mean.
(woman) Besides, I totally disagree with him about it’s not being useful.
(man) Why is that?
(woman) Well, sometimes you learn things in one course that you can apply in another. Take me for instance. I am an art student but I’ve used things I learned in biology for my art projects.
(man) Really? How?
(woman) Well, just last year, I did a series of flower paintings for a big art assignment. And all the time we had spent looking at plants and making drawings of them in my biology lab definitely helped me with the art project.
(man) Yeah, I guess there are unexpected connections like that. It probably happens with a lot of people.

#question
The woman expresses her opinion about the proposal described in the letter. Briefly summarize the proposal. Then state her opinion about the proposal and explain the reasons she gives for holding that opinion.

