#article
Real-Time Marketing

Businesses look for ways to make their products stand out to customers. One way that some businesses try to attract customers is by creating advertising that is related to well-known current events. This strategy is known as real-time marketing. Companies using real-time marketing may create advertisements for their products and services that are closely connected to popular news events, holidays, or cultural happenings. These companies hope that since consumers are already thinking about these current events, they may be more likely to show interest in product advertisements that are connected to these events.

#record
Now listen to part of a lecture from a Business class

(male professor) So there's a company that sells shampoo and other hair products that used this technique recently.

They did it right after a big movie awards ceremony. I can’t remember which one but there were lots of actors and actresses and different celebrities at the ceremony and a lot of people watched the award show on TV. And there are always some people who watch awards ceremonies mainly for the fashion, you know, to see what kind of clothes the celebrities wear, how they style their hair that kind of thing.

So the hair products company had a clever idea. The company got permission from certain celebrities to use photographic images of them, taken during the show, to create ads with the photos of those celebrities and the hair styles they were wearing. So, um, in the ads, next to each image of the celebrity, they showed instructions on how to create that particular hair style. And they included a list of the hair products they sell, products made by the company that could be used to create the hair style. Then the company posted these ads on different Web sites on the internet soon after the award show. So what happened?

Well, people had just seen the award show and liked the hair styles they saw and, so, they were interested in wearing their hair that way, too, so people really noticed the ads, really paid attention to them. Very soon sales of the company's hair products increased.

#question
Explain how the example from the professor's lecture illustrates the concept of real-time marketing.
