Listen to part of a lecture in an Anthropology class.

(female professor) Archeologists sometimes discover an unknown ancient written script and they need to decipher or figure out the meaning of the script in order to read and understand it. And now, a script's not the same as a language, right? A script is a written symbolic communication system that's, uh, associated with a spoken language. So, the written symbols of a script can be used to represent the words, ideas of a language or languages.

Now, deciphering an ancient script is interesting to anthropologists because the script can both help us to reconstruct the language of a civilization and give us insight into that civilization's customs and daily life. But traditionally, deciphering a script takes a long time. However, a new computer program may help speed the process. To understand just how much let's first look at traditional approach to deciphering one script, a script that was deciphered only recently in the twentieth century, Ugaritic.

Tablets with Ugaritic writing on them were found in Syria in the late 1920s. Now, when faced with an unknown script, you'd ask questions like, first, what type of script is this? There are two main types: either, well, each symbol represents a whole idea or word, or, each symbol represents a sound or a combination of sounds, the way an alphabet does. In the case of Ugaritic, only thirty symbols were used on all the tablets, suggesting the symbols were alphabetic.

You'd also ask whether the language itself is related to any other known language. And because of where these tablets were found and their age, we thought Ugaritic might be related to ancient Hebrew. This is important because we can use the known script as a clue to the unknown script. So, if we know a script's alphabetic, we try to map its symbols onto the alphabet of the known script. But, this is no simple task. You have to figure out pieces one by one. You may start out by mapping the unknown alphabet onto the known alphabet only to later learn it was an incorrect mapping. Or, you may just get stuck. And the study of Ugaritic was heading in that direction, until the discovery of five axes with writing on them.

Each one had the same combination of six symbols and the fifth axe also had an additional four symbols. Researchers guessed the written symbols common to all the axes would denote a name. But the fifth axe, they believed that the four symbols that preceded the name would spell out the word axe in Ugaritic. What followed took a lot of work. But it turns out the ancient Hebrew word for axe has the same number of symbols and is quite similar. These four symbols led to further discoveries and now we are mostly able to read Ugaritic. So, this traditional approach can work but it's time-consuming.

Now, recently, computer scientists devised a program meant to decipher unknown scripts. They tested the computer program with Ugaritic to see if the program's decipherment matched the human one. Amazingly, the program deciphered Ugaritic in just a few hours. Compare that to years it took humans. OK, the program itself. It works by quickly comparing the new script to a known script. So, what exactly does it compare?

Well, it's programmed to make certain assumptions about the features of the two scripts and languages. First, it assumes related letters or symbols in the scripts will appear about the same number of times with a similar frequency. And the second assumption concerns word structure, um, the way words are built. Corresponding words in the related language might also have a similar structure. So, the system uses these assumptions together to attempt to decipher the script.

(male student) It's kind of limited though , right? Cause the program can't decipher script unless there's a known script to compare it to.

(professor) It is. But remember, that's a limitation no matter the approach. If there's no related language to compare it to, a script simply can't be deciphered. Take Etruscan, Etruscan dates to around 700 BCE in what's present-day Italy. It isn't related to any known language as far as we know. So we can see the traditional approach won't be successful. On the other hand, the computer program, well, it should soon be able to scan multiple scripts at a time to look for similarities. And so it's entirely possible that the program itself might someday discover a previously unknown relationship between two languages.