Listen to part of a lecture in an Astronomy class

(male professor) The surface of Mars today is mostly very cold, certainly too cold for there to be liquid water present. Yet, scientists have speculated for decades that in its early history, about four billion years ago, Mars was much warmer and wetter than it is today. Observations from Earth and from space have detected features in the Martian landscape indicating that Mars once had liquid water on its surface, features like interconnected valleys that appear to have been formed by rivers and also depressions, low lying areas filled with dust and sediment that look like ancient lake beds.

So, what might account for this warm wet Mars? Well, one hypothesis suggests that Mars' atmosphere once had very high levels of carbon dioxide. OK, let's take a step back for a minute. We know that carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas and that greenhouse gases capture solar energy that would otherwise radiate back into space from a planet's surface. So, these greenhouse gases trap that energy within the planet's lower atmosphere and keep the surface of the planet warm. Perhaps warm enough for water to exist there in liquid form like it does on Earth. 

But some astronomers remained skeptical. You see another thing about carbon dioxide is that it is easily absorbed into water and eventually the carbon dioxide in the water may combine with other elements in the water to form minerals called carbonates. Carbonates then settle to the bottom of these bodies of water and form deposits there, chalk-like layers that can remain long after the water itself is gone. So, if the hypothesis is correct, if the atmosphere of Mars was once rich in carbon dioxide, there should be now huge deposits of carbonate on the planet. But nobody was able to detect that much carbonate there using the standard method for studying the chemical composition of a planet: spectroscopy.

Astronomers use spectroscopy to study the color spectrum of light, in this case, the light being reflected from planets. By analyzing the reflected light, researchers can determine, among other things, the chemical composition of a planet. And a detailed spectroscopic analysis of light reflected from the surface of Mars did not detect huge amounts of carbonate. It found less than one-third of the carbonate expected to be present, if a carbon dioxide-rich atmosphere had, in fact, once existed there.

So, if we are not seeing lots of carbonate, would we be right to reject this hypothesis? Or could there be other explanations? Well, maybe it's just much less simple than we thought. For example, we've detected a lot of sulfates on Mars. This means the planet's atmosphere once contained a great deal of sulfur in various forms. And we know that atmospheric sulfur and carbon dioxide interact in all sorts of complex ways. So that may help explain why we've detected so much less carbonate than anticipated.

And there's another issue. Spectroscopic analysis of reflected light only detects materials on the planet's surface. But what if the carbonates are mixed together with dust and other sediments to form much less concentrated deposits? Or covered over and buried just under the surface. Spectroscopic analysis wouldn't detect those carbonates. So, we needed to gather evidence in other ways like from spacecraft that have actually landed on Mars. And, in fact, instruments on a spacecraft that landed near Mars' North Pole confirmed that carbonates are present just beneath the surface there, which seems to support the idea of early carbonate formation on Mars.

The problem here, though, is that the instruments couldn't measure the amount of carbonate present in the rocks. However, a recent analysis of data from one of the Mars rovers did result in an accurate measurement of the amount of carbonate in some rocks jutting up from the surface of Mars in an area called the Columbia Hills. The rover determined that the rocks averaged around twenty five percent carbonate. If such a high carbonate content were to prove common elsewhere on Mars that'll be strong support for high levels of atmospheric carbon dioxide in Mars' distant past. If not, if that rock was just an isolated occurrence, well, the search and the debate continue.
