Listen to part of a lecture in a Psychology class

(female professor) So, uh, first of all, here's a question. When we, well, at least I know I do this anyway, when people listen to music, there're certain things that most of us do, such as? Jim?

(male student) Uh, sing along?

(professor) Well, what if you don't know the words or if there aren't words?

(male student) I might tap my foot or nod my head along with the rhythm?

(professor) OK, we think nothing of this. It seems so simple, right? But, in fact, the ability to not only process musical rhythms but also the match these rhythms with movements is a uniquely human capability and one that psychologists thought wasn't present until the age of four or five. A recent study shed some new light on the topic, though.

In the study, researchers had two groups of infants between five months and twenty four months old. Both groups listened to excerpts of classical music as well as the versions of the same excerpts with just the rhythm. They also listened to a children's song, drum beats, and a musical stimulus with rapid changes in speed. Now, the first group also listened to adult-directed speech, recordings of adults speaking to another adult. Uh, any idea why?

(male student) To see if the infants' reaction to music was any different from their reaction to speech? Speech is less rhythmic than music, so I guess it was a kind of control, you know, to see what infants were really reacting to.

(professor) Yeah, OK, and the second experimental group also had a control, but it was infant-directed speech, adult speech directed toward infants. It's also less rhythmic than music, but, um, it's also more engaging for infants. The infants were tested on a parent's lap and their movements were monitored by both a digital video camera to record them and by 3D motion detector technology, which allowed researchers, um, a more accurate means of tracking infant movement.

And what they found, well, first remember that these are infants no older than twenty four months, and according to established beliefs they should not have the ability to process musical rhythms. So, what they found with this advanced technology was, well, the infants moved their bodies rhythmically to the music, the drum beats, and to the musical stimulus with rapid changes in speed, but not when they were listening to either adult-directed or infant-directed speech.

(male student) So, their response was probably to the rhythm, right?

(professor) Um hum, the results also showed that infants can mirror some musical rhythms through movement, meaning they have a sense of the speed of the rhythm and they are able to somewhat coordinate their movement to that rhythm. We thought that this was an ability that wasn't developed until four to five years old.

(male student) Well, like, were they good at it? Do they really have a sense of rhythm?

(professor) Well, all their behaviors are rather rudimentary. In fact, there was very little difference in the results between the oldest and the youngest infants. There wasn't significant evidence of movement to music synchronization. Synchronization is when movements are matched perfectly to the music, really keeping a rhythm. But while the infants could coordinate their movements to a certain extent, this was really noted only in cases where the music had a very simple rhythm.

(male student) And the older infants weren't better at it.

(professor) No, synchronization probably requires a degree of motor control that is not developed until later in school-age children. So, we know that infants engage with music, at least on some level. But we still don't understand how or why this engagement occurs. Something that coordination of movements with music has a social origin.

Well, of course, these infants in the study showed coordination without being subjected to social cues. It was a laboratory setting. So I think we should consider looking at neurobiological or psychological explanations for this behavior, something else to consider. If researchers do find some sort of neurological brain mechanism for coordinating movement to music that is present from infancy, then the next thing to consider is what kind of function it serves. What advantage does this trait offer? Did this trait serve some other purpose in the past?