Listen to a conversation between a student and her academic adviser

(woman) Thanks for taking the time to see me on such short notice.
(man) No problem, Michelle, what's on your mind?
(woman) It's the architecture course I've been taking. Uh, you see, the projects I've done for class, my grades haven't been exactly stellar. I don't think my professors see much potential in my work. Their aspects of designing buildings I just can't, I mean, you see I've always loved architecture, researching it, reading about how buildings are designed. I've even visited buildings by famous architects like Frank Lloyd Wright. But now that I have to design things myself, I'm having second thoughts about whether I'm really cut out to be an architect.
(man) Hmm, as I recall that's not at all how you felt when you were a first-year student.
(woman) I know. It's just that, well, I thought architecture was my talent cause, you know, I've always been artistic and I'm pretty good at math. But, you know, I've also become very interested in the environment, in protecting the land. Maybe I'm thinking, maybe if I switch my concentration to environmental science.
(man) Keep in mind, though, most of the architectural courses you've taken thus far would not count toward the degree in environmental science, which means you'd probably need to enroll in a few courses during the summer and unless the university summer program includes all the courses you'd need, you might wind up graduating later than planned. Would that be OK?
(woman) Hmm, I'd have to pay summer school tuition as well, which is more than I budgeted for. Maybe I'll just stay put.
(man) Actually, there might be an alternative. Have you considered shifting your focus to landscape architecture?
(woman) Landscape architecture? Is that like gardening?
(man) No, landscape architects are the people who design gardens and parks in the green spaces surrounding buildings. Whereas an architect would design an office complex or shopping center, a landscape architect would be hired to design the outdoor spaces adjacent to those buildings.
(woman) Designing outdoor spaces! Yeah, that seems like something I'd really enjoy and do well at.
(man) And according to economic projections I saw recently, landscape architecture as a profession is growing. As a result, this university, and quite a few others as a matter of fact, have created degree programs in landscape architecture.
(woman) Oh, wow!
(man) Why don't you do some research in our library or on the internet? You should also talk to my colleague Sandra Hughes here in the architecture department. Professor Hughes heads up the landscape architecture program.
(woman) So does that mean if I switch my major to landscape architecture, I'd still be able to graduate next year?
(man) Possibly, many of the courses you've already taken, like Computer-Aided Design and History of Architecture, these will probably count toward the degree in landscape architecture. But, definitely talk to Professor Hughes first before changing any of your plans.
