Listen to part of a lecture in an Art History class

(male professor) For a long time, people have debated whether photography is art or merely a technology, a tool for documenting reality. One painter told me she doesn't consider photography art because it's, quote, "too easy,ยก" because anyone can learn to use a camera. That's her bias and, perhaps you know other painters who feel the same way. But when you read the history of photography in your textbook, I hope you'll notice the paradox: the fact that painters themselves were some of the first people to embrace early photographic technology like the camera obscura.

The camera obscura is an optical device that projects an upside down image onto a surface. And in the 1800s, painters used camera obscura heavily. They projected an image onto their canvas and then carefully traced the image. This helped them render the illusion of perspective more accurately and capture more details. At the time, in the mid to late 1800s, realism, the accurate, objective, the unembellished depiction of nature or contemporary life was a major artistic movement. So, when permanent photographs came about, it's not surprising that painting and drawing began to be regarded as a poor imitation of photography.

People now started relying on photography to provide records of fact. The objectivity of the photograph was so unquestioned that photo started being introduced as evidence in courts of law. So, where did that leave painting? You'd have to sit for hours to have your portrait painted but only a few minutes to have your photograph taken. Would photography replace painting, replace the demand for all realist art?

Some painters responded to the situation by turning against realism and relying solely on their imagination, images that cameras could not record. Artistic movements like impressionism and abstract art, so-called non-representational art. These art movements actually were reactions to the great influence of photography, a revolt, some might say. Eventually, especially as cameras got more versatile, smaller, more portable, photographers were faced with more and more creative choices: what to leave in the photograph, what to leave out, camera angles, lighting. Different camera lenses could be used to distort an image. Film negatives and photos could be altered.

And with the advent of digital photography and image-processing software, photographs can be manipulated like never before. This has become so widespread that courts now require testimony that a photo submitted as evidence is a true representation of reality. Over time, photography has evolved into a variety of genres such as photo journalism, portrait photography, and art photography. 

But, still, lines can be blurred. Take wedding photography, which at one level documents a special event, a marriage ceremony. But consider a wedding photographer who uses a digital camera and computer to revise and edit digital photographs, for example, reducing the intensity of some colors while accentuating others, or changing the background so it complements the bride's outfit. If the definition of art includes creativity, you'd be hard pressed to argue that this approach is mere documentation.