1. What is the lecture mainly about?
  A) A survey of various types of rock found on the surface of Mars
  B) Recent improvements in analyzing the composition of planetary rocks
  C) Measuring the water content of the atmosphere of Mars
  D) Conflicting evidence about the early atmosphere of Mars

2. According to the professor, what landscape features on the surface of Mars indicate that liquid water was probably once present there? [choose two answers]
  A) A network of valleys resembling those formed by rivers
  B) Rock formations created by floodwaters
  C) Low areas filled with dust and sediment
  D) Evidence of erosion on mountainsides caused by melting ice

3. According to the professor, why did some astronomers question the hypothesis that there were high levels of greenhouse gases in Mars' ancient atmosphere?
  A) Spectroscopic analysis did not detect large amounts of carbonate on Mars' surface.
  B) There is no evidence that there were high levels of oxygen in Mars' ancient atmosphere.
  C) The relationship between warm temperatures and carbonate formation is unproven.
  D) Spectroscopic analysis of other planets has not detected greenhouse gases.

4. What does the professor say about the sulfur in Mars' ancient atmosphere?
  A) It may have been present in greater quantities than carbon dioxide
  B) It may have been largely absorbed by liquid water on Mars' surface.
  C) It may have contributed to the ultimate cooling of Mars' climate.
  D) It may have affected the amounts of carbonate formed on Mars.

5. What does the professor imply about the spectroscopic analysis of Mars?
  A) It highlights the value of spectroscopy in astronomy.
  B) It may be misleading because of the limits of spectroscopy.
  C) Mars' atmosphere may have interfered with accurate measurement for the study.
  D) Mistakes were probably made in interpreting the data collected during the study.

6. What does the professor imply about the information gathered by the Mars rover at the Columbia Hills?
  A) It helps confirm the results of previous explorations.
  B) It supports the hypothesis discussed by the professor.
  C) It casts doubt on the claim that carbonate formation is related to temperature.
  D) It will not be duplicated in the foreseeable future.