1. What is the lecture mainly about?
  A) Research that showed the musical preferences of infants and older children.
  B) The effects of music on infants' motor development
  C) New evidence that challenges a belief about infant development
  D) Stages that infants go through in the first two years of life

2. In the study, why did the researchers include recordings of adult-directed and infant-directed speech?
  A) To ensure that they were measuring the infants' response to rhythm
  B) To verify that the infants' hearing was within normal range
  C) To determine the age at which infants respond to adult speech
  D) To find out whether one kind of speech is more rhythmic than another

3. How did the researchers get information about the infants' reactions to music? [choose two answers]
  A) By filming them with a video camera
  B) By training them to coordinate their movements to music
  C) By using an advanced motion detector
  D) By collecting reports from the infants' parents

4. What does the professor imply about the older infants in the study?
  A) They responded to adult-directed speech more than younger infants did.
  B) They responded to music's rhythm as well as its word.
  C) Their rhythmic motions were more varied than those of younger infants.
  D) Their motor control was not much better than that of younger infants.

5. What does the professor imply about school-age children?
  A) They can create complex rhythms on their own.
  B) They can precisely match their movements to music's rhythm.
  C) They do not mirror musical rhythms through movement.
  D) They do not have noticeable response to speech recordings.

6. What is the professor's opinion about the hypothesis that the infants' rhythmic behavior has a social origin?
  A) She is convinced the hypothesis is supported by evidence.
  B) She thinks a social origin is more likely to be true than a neurobiological origin.
  C) She is concerned that researchers will not give the hypothesis the attention it deserves.
  D) She thinks the hypothesis is probably not accurate.
