1.What is the main purpose of the lecture?
A) To discuss painting as a form of visual documentation
B) To explore the influence of painting on photography
C) To discuss some technological advances in photography
D) To describe photography as both an art form and documentation

2.What benefit to painters does the professor emphasize when he discusses the camera obscura?
A) Painters could improve their technique by tracing works of more accomplished artists.
B) Painters could render their subject matter with greater accuracy.
C) Painters could create paintings on a wider variety of surfaces.
D) Painters were able to paint portraits and landscapes more quickly.

3.Why does the professor mention an artistic movement called impressionism?
A) To point out how the development of photography influenced art history
B) To explain why a long-established art movement continues to be popular
C) To help explain how photography evolved as an art form
D) To discuss a factor that led to improvements in cameras

4.Why does the professor discuss digital photography?
A) To emphasize the impact of digital photography on modern painting
B) To point out that the cost of making photographs has gone down
C) To indicate the ease with which photographs can be altered
D) To explain the increase in the number of documentary photographs

5.What change related to the use of photographs in court does the professor mention?
A) It has become more difficult to introduce photographs as evidence.
B) Many courts now limit the number of photojournalists allowed in courtrooms.
C) The use of digital photography has increased the number of photographs presented as evidence.
D) The use of courtroom artists to document trial proceedings has become rare.

6.What does the professor mean when he says this: 
A) The photographs he is discussing are very difficult to create.
B) More painters are using computers in their work.
C) Professional photographers need strong computer skills.
D) The type of work he is discussing clearly contains elements of art.
