1.What does the professor mainly discuss?
A)Hypotheses about why certain behaviors have developed in juvenile fish
B)Possible explanations for a fish-grouping behavior
C)Predator-prey relationships among various marine organisms
D)Evidence that grouping behaviors are more beneficial for adult fish than for juvenile fish

2.What type of evidence does the professor refer to in support of the meeting-point hypothesis?
A)The large number of species of fish that form schools
B)The types of floating objects under which tuna aggregate
C)The percentage of fish species that aggregate under floating objects
D)The size of schools formed by tuna that aggregate under floating objects

3.What is the professor's opinion of the paper written by researchers in Spain?
A)Its challenge to the meeting-point hypothesis is convincing.
B)It raises more questions about fish aggregation than it answers.
C)It effectively shows that the shelter-from-predator hypothesis is not true for most fish species.
D)It supports the food-supply hypothesis.

4.Why does the professor discuss fish coloration?
A)To support the shelter-from-predators hypothesis
B)To point out a difference between tuna and other fish species
C)To emphasize the connection between a fish's diet and its coloration
D)To explain why not all fish species aggregate under floating algae

5.Why does the professor discuss ocean currents?
A)To explain one way in which fish form schools
B)To explain one way in which floating debris aids fish in obtaining food
C)To explain why some fish species do not need to aggregate
D)To indicate where commercial fishers often place fish-aggregating devices

6.What points about tuna does the professor emphasize when she discusses artificial fish-aggregating devices, or FADs? [choose two answers]
A)That tuna continue to aggregate as adults
B)That tuna rely on FADs for most of their food
C)That FADs are usually placed in areas where juvenile tuna do not live
D)That juvenile tuna are seldom found in coastal waters


