Listen to a conversation between a student and an employee of the university housing office.

(man) So, what can I do for you today?
(woman) My name's Janet Randall. I'm a transfer student. I went to State Tech University last year but I decided to come here to Mount Lincoln University instead because it has a really strong environmental science program, which is what I want to major in.
(man) All right?
(woman) Oh, sorry, I guess none of that really matters to you.
(man) No, that's fine. It's always interesting to hear what brings students to Mount Lincoln.
(woman) Well, anyway, uh, I came here to the housing office after last semester ended in summer, when I found out I've been accepted and I knew I was definitely going to be coming here. And, uh, I met with one of the housing administrators and, well, he told me that I'd be assigned to a campus apartment not a dorm.
(man) And where were you assigned to live?
(woman) Thomas Hall, which I didn't know wasn't an apartment until I moved in yesterday. I guess I just kind of assumed it was, you know.
(man) Well, didn't you look on our Web site? We have fairly detailed information about all of the residence halls here on campus. We encourage students to check out the Web site when they get their housing assignment.
(woman) Yeah, I know, I looked at the map on the Web site to see where the building was but I just assumed it was an apartment.
(man) I can check if you paid for an apartment. OK, the computer record showed that you paid for a dorm. You know that there's an extra charge for living in a campus apartment, right?
(woman) No, I didn't. Why is that?
(man) Well, the apartments offer more amenities, for instance, each apartment has its own bathroom so only four people share it. And also the apartments have a small living room and a kitchen.
(woman) Oh, I see.
(man) And also some of the dorms are on the outskirts of the campus; the apartments are all close to the classroom buildings.
(woman) All right, I mean, I'd be willing to pay the extra charge. It definitely seems worth it.
(man) It's, uh, a little late.
(woman) Oh, but then why did the housing employee tell me it wouldn't be a problem when I was here before?
(man) I'm honestly not sure what happened then. But the way this form is filled out indicates that you selected and should be charged for a dorm room. Do you remember who you spoke with?
(woman) No, I don't remember.
(man) The fact is campus apartments are assigned to students via a lottery system, a few months before the end of the semester.
(woman) And since I wasn't here last semester
(man) But, Thomas Hall is our newest, most modern housing on campus. It was completed just a year ago and has a lot of great features that students really seem to enjoy.
