Listen to part of a lecture in a Geology class

(male professor) As we've discussed, the Earth's not a solid, uniform mass. It's layered and we traditionally think of it in terms of three layers: the crust, the mantle and the core. The crust is the relatively thin, cool outer layer. Then, according to the traditional model, beneath that is the mantle and finally, at the center of the Earth, is the core. Now, not to totally dismiss the three-layer model, but, researchers who study seismic waves generated by earthquakes, who study how fast these seismic waves travel through Earth, they've pointed out certain complexities, like, differences within the mantle as it gets deeper. So we now refer, for example, to the upper mantle which is closer to the crust and the lower mantle.

Naturally we know most about the Earth's crust because we can directly observe it. But the mantle and the core, well, we know the pressures get pretty high down there and the basics of physical chemistry tell us that rock under extreme pressure will change, actually change physically. But if we want to see these changes, well, we don't have the technology to drill down beneath the crust. So we'd have to find a way to replicate the pressures of Earth's interior in the lab. And that's where geology meets physics folks.

Early in the twentieth century, physicists started working on ways to squeeze materials at high pressure. This kind of science is called high-pressure physics. And it turns out that if you can get the pressures high enough, all sorts of weird things start happening. For example, they did an experiment with water: they squeezed some water to the kind of pressures you'd find at the bottom of Earth's crust. And this created a solid ice that could withstand temperatures near what we think of as the boiling point of water.

Now, to learn what happens to rocks in Earth's interior, we'd need to re-create the pressures that exist down there. And we now have a tool that can do that, one that can create pressures more than one million times the atmospheric pressure at Earth's surface. This tool's called the diamond-anvil cell or DAC for short. The diamond-anvil cell, well, basically, it's two cut diamonds and you put a substance between the diamonds and press the diamonds together. Because ahead of each cut diamond is such a tiny area you can create a lot of pressure by applying a relatively small force, right?

When forces concentrate in a small area, you get high pressure. OK, so, researchers took familiar minerals with chemical compositions thought to be similar to those in the minerals of Earth's mantle. They squeezed them in the DAC and, at the same time, heated them using lasers. So they heated and squeezed these minerals and found that, with enough pressure and the high enough temperature created with that laser, the elements in the minerals, mainly silicon and oxygen, will rearrange into a very dense crystal structure.

And if we know how deep underground a very dense crystal like this can be found, how much rock would be pressing down on it from above, we can come up with a pretty good estimate of the pressure. And for a given pressure, we now know from our experiments with the diamond-anvil cell, just what the temperature would have to be to cause the sort of crystal to form.

OK, now let me mention what some geologists did in 2007. Using data based on reflective seismic waves from earthquakes, they were able to create a 3D map of the lower mantle region just above the boundary of the core. And this map revealed a mineral with a particularly dense crystalline structure. Remember the crystal that was created with the DAC in the laboratory? OK, so, once they identified the mineral and figured out how deep it is, that is, how much pressure it's under, what could they calculate? The temperature, right? Which worked out to around 3,600 degrees Celsius and that information turns out to be really critical for understanding important geological processes going on near that mantle-core boundary. But it's information we wouldn't have without those experiments in the high-pressure physics lab.