Listen to part of a lecture in an Art History class.

(male professor) Today I want to discuss some of the important characteristics of sixteenth century Venetian painting, painting done in and around Venice, Italy. May be the most important feature is color. We refer to these colors collectively as the Venetian palette. And what's interesting about it is that it's not really a set of specific colors. It's more of the quality of the colors that were used. It's not like, for example, the Impressionist palette. French impressionism is known for its bright pure colors. The impressionists used vivid paints and they didn't always mix them well. You can see unblended colors in their paintings. They avoided black and white and used colors for shadows and highlights instead. So when you hear the word ¡°impressionist¡±, you know what colors to expect.

But, it's different with the Venetian palette. It's not a set of colors that you can just list. The colors in this palette are very complex and rich. Also, some of the paints were translucent, making it look like there was light shining through them. How did they do all this? Well, we now think that painters in Venice may have been putting tiny particles of glass in them. The fact that Venetian painters used glass to make paint isn't something we just now discovered. We've known for a while about a couple of colors that were made using glass. One of them you may be familiar with, even if you don't know the name, is a color called smalt blue.

Smalt blue is made from a deep blue glass. The glass is broken and ground up into a powder. This powder is the pigment that gives smalt blue its color. It's the key ingredient. As I said, we already knew about smalt blue. But what we're discovering now, and this is exciting, is that Venetian painters may also have used glass in other colors. Researchers have examined paintings by a number of sixteenth-century Venetian painters and it seems there were green and yellow paints that also included glass. This could be the secret to the Venetian palette. Now, if I'm talking about Venice and I mentioned glass, what comes to mind?

(male student) Um, isn't Venice famous for glass making?

(professor) Exactly! Venetian glass manufacturing was already well developed in the sixteenth century. Glass makers were using clear glass and colored glass to make objects like goblets for drinking. Sometimes the colors were so intense that the glass could be used as false gemstones. And apparently painters in Venice took advantage of this availability of materials right on their doorstep and used them in fabricating their paints.

What's interesting about this is that it allows us to look at the Venetian palette in a somewhat different light. It's wasn't just a style that a group of painters in a certain region all just happened to adopt. Instead, it looks like their physical proximity to Venetian glass manufacturers may have been the key historical factor in the development of this palette. All right, let's take a look at a painting by Paolo Veronese.

Like other sixteenth-century Venetian painters, Veronese is known for his use of color and the rich and luxurious detail in his work. We can see that in this painting, Boy with a Greyhound. Look at the boy's clothing, the different fabrics the different textures. Something else to notice is the illusion of realism. The painting is so realistic that you'd feel you could walk right into the painting and into the landscape behind the boy. Veronese did this in many of his works. He painted people that seemed to be stepping through doors into the room with the viewer. The perspective makes it look three-dimensional.  Now, if I owned this painting, I'd hang it on the wall near a door to exploit this effect.

(female student) Excuse me, professor. You said Veronese is known for his use of color, but that painting looked dull to me, especially the sky in the background, which is gray not blue.

(professor) Interesting point, I explained how smalt blue was made, remember?

(female student) Yeah, with particles of blue glass

(professor) Yes, well, it turns out that smalt blue is a fugitive pigment; that means that it loses its color. So in that painting, Boy with a Greyhound, the color of the sky changed over time. It used to be blue but now it's not.

(male student) So it'd faded?

(professor) Essentially yes, the glass particle that gives smalt blue its color contained potassium. Potassium is what gives the pigment its color. Eventually the potassium comes out of the glass and the paint loses its color.