Listen to a conversation between a student and her English Literature professor.

(man) So, Mary, you got my email. What do you think?
(woman) It sounds interesting, but, I don't know if I'm qualified.
(man) Trust me, you are.
(woman) But why would high school kids listen to me? I'm not a teacher.
(man) Well, that's the whole point. OK, let me explain. See, many high school kids think the plays that William Shakespeare wrote are too, uh, tough not relevant to their lives, old-fashioned. So a few years ago, our English department started a project to try to find ways to make Shakespeare more interesting to local high school students; help them connect.
(woman) Well, they do have one thing right: he's not exactly light reading.
(man) Right, so we thought that one way to make him more accessible, even cool, was to get college students to mentor the high school students. They'd see young people like you understanding, valuing, having fun with Shakespeare. You'd show them how to do that.
(woman) Well, would I be working with younger or older high school students?
(man) Mostly ninth-graders and you'd be involved with the less complex play, usually introduced to fourteen- or fifteen-year-olds.
(woman) So maybe something like Julius Caesar?
(man) In fact, that's exactly the one you'll be doing. Now, you'd mostly be working closely with one specific student, but every once in a while, there're also larger discussion sessions that all of the students and their mentors take part in. Students watch scenes from various movie versions of the play and compare them, uh, act out parts of scenes with other students, that sort of thing. They have a lot of fun; really get involved.
(woman) That's cool. OK, so, it's just one play and students are younger.
(man) Right, and as for how you could approach this, pretty much anything goes. We'd leave that up to your creativity.
(woman) OK, yeah, well. I'd definitely want to read the play out loud with the student. And maybe we could get into other cool things, too, like that literary technique that Shakespeare uses to help the audience understand his characters, um, indirect characterization.
(man) Um hum, you certainly could.
(woman) Yeah, I remember learning about it the first time I saw the play Julius Caesar. That character, uh, Cassius, um, he was Caesar's childhood friend but then as an adult Caesar becomes the dictator of Rome so he has control over everyone including Cassius. Cassius never directly tells anyone he's envious, but the audience knows it because Cassius starts badmouthing Caesar, like, saying Caesar was weak as a child.
(man) See, you'd be a natural at this. I'm convinced the students in this program would really benefit from your insights and enthusiasm, just like your classmates do in our Shakespeare class. Everyone always wants to hear your ideas.
(woman) Oh, well, thanks, well, my schedule's pretty busy. Of course, I've dealt with busy schedules before, so when do I get started?
(man) Well, I have the full schedule right here.
