Listen to part of a lecture in an Anthropology class

(female professor) Well, not all ancient writing systems have been deciphered as fully as Egyptian hieroglyphics have been. In fact, let me mention something that was used by the ancient Inca people of South America over 500 years ago. It's called a Khipu.

A Khipu is a bundle of strings with elaborate knots tied into them. Each Khipu consists of a long primary string that many other smaller hanging cords are attached to. And on each of the smaller cord, a series of knots was tied. But were Khipu's made just for decoration or what? Well, this was a big mystery, till the 1920s when an historian named Leland Locke claimed to have figured it all out.

Locke believed these knotted strings were used in the Incan Empire as a record-keeping system that the knots on the cord represented numbers and that together all the cords in the Khipu constituted a record of numerical data like population figures or the amount of grain in the store house. He identified three distinct types of knots: some resembling a figure 8, some long knots with two to nine turns, and some single knots. Locke believed that the figure 8 knots represented one of something that the long knots represented the numbers 2 through 9 depending on the number of turns and that the single knots represented ten, hundreds and so on based on their location on the string. Locke's explanation seemed to make so much sense that many anthropologists considered the mystery solved even though his ideas haven't actually been proven. In fact, about two hundred of the Khipu's that have been examined of the time did not follow Locke's rules.

Recently, a group of researchers revisited the challenge of decoding Khipu's. They studied a collection of Khipu's that were all found in a single location and wondered whether these Khipu's might be the records of different levels of administrators one higher than the next. And, in fact, when the numbers on the cords of one Khipu were added together following Locke's system, the total was the same as the number on one of the cords of a second Khipu. And the sum total of the number on that Khipu was found on a cord of a third Khipu.

This provided persuasive new evidence for Locke's theory that Khipu's were indeed used for numerical record-keeping. However, the same group of researchers also noticed subtle differences in Khipu knots: differences that convinced them that these knots represented more than just numerical data that they might also contained words and even stories. For example, cords were of different colors and some knots were tied right over left while others were tied left over right.

In all, the researchers identified seven different constructional details and speculated that each detail represented something specific. For instance, maybe a particular detail told the reader to interpret a knot as a word rather than a number. Now, as I said, Locke's interpretation of Khipu's as no more than a number-recording system had been viewed as accurate for a long time. So this new hypothesis that Khipu's were also a writing system was met with a lot of skepticism.

But these researchers knew that decoding any ancient text or script is, uh, is kind of like rock climbing where you'll have to patiently search out a hand-hold, pull yourself up and then hope you find another hand-hold to help you get even higher. Well, like a rock climber, when you're trying to decipher an unfamiliar script, you've got to persevere, search around until you find a clue and then work from there and hope that, step by step, one clue leads to another until it all begins to make sense.

Now, one analytical technique employed by the researchers is called the suffix tree. With a suffix tree, you're just trying to find short patterns that get repeated. For example, let's look at the name Barbara. Analyzing the name Barbara, using the suffix tree method, you find a few repeating patterns like ¡°bar¡± as well as just ¡°ba¡± and ¡°ar¡±. Well, the team had a computerized database containing extensive details on some 300 Khipu's. And using the suffix tree method, the computer identified three thousand distinctive five-knot patterns. Each of which could possibly have meaning beyond just numbers.

Now, this doesn't prove conclusively that Khipu's do contain words and stories but pattern repetition has been the key to decoding other ancient scripts. And being able to see which patterns appear frequently and which ones seem to be related, this might be a huge step forward in decoding Khipu's as well.