Listen to part of a lecture in a Paleontology class.

(female professor) We've been talking about the fossils of very early land animals. So before we go on, does anyone have any questions about the reading?

(female student) Yeah, the book mentions several of those animals, uh, sort of half-fish half-land animal, and I was wondering about Tiktaalik, I mean, why is it so much more important than the other evolving creatures?

(professor) Ah, yes, Tiktaalik roseae, well, Tiktaalik were about 375 million years ago and, um, paleontologists believe it was a true intermediate between fish and land animals. Before discovering the Tiktaalik fossil, most other missing links as we'd like to call them, between fish and land animals were either more like fish or more like tetrapods. OK, we recall that tetrapods are animals with four legs or limbs including amphibians, mammals.

(female student) Oh, so Tiktaalik was both, part fish and part tetrapod?

(professor) Well, in a way, remember, when some species of fish left the water to become land animals, it didn't happen overnight. Fins had to be replaced with limbs, new ways of breathing and hearing had to be developed. And let's not forget gravity. Paleontologists have been trying by examining the fossils of these creatures to figure out how and in what order the changes took place. And the Tiktaalik fossils have provided them with some great clues.

(female student) Right, we talked a little about these changes that gills became, uh, ears?

(professor) Right, the whole gill system changed, evolved. The fossils indicate that Tiktaalik was becoming less dependent on gill respiration. In fish, there's a large bone that's needed for gill breathing. It's in the head and helps operating the gill breathing system. But this bone also prevents the fish from moving its head up and down.

In Tiktaalik, this bone had shrunk. Eventually through evolution it would become part of the middle ear in tetrapods. Because this bone in its head was smaller, Tiktaalik would have been able to move its head up and down. Paleontologists are pretty sure it had a neck, which is definitely a tetrapod feature and very helpful for lifting its head out of the water and taking a gulp of air. And it could swivel its head from side to side, good for spotting predators and prey. Um, it'll help if you picture a crocodile. Tiktaalik had a long flat head, sharp teeth and was covered with scales and it was big, one to three meters long.

(male student) So did Tiktaalik only breathe out of water? If so, maybe it was the first tetrapod.

(professor) Well, not quite. Tiktaalik was probably able to both breathe air and breathe underwater.

(male student) According to the book, all the transitional species had four, uh, feet? They looked like paddles and were webbed.

(professor) Right, they were fins and Tiktaalik still had fins like that, two in the front and two in the back. And they were more fish-like than tetrapod-like, more suited for swimming than walking. But, unlike earlier transitional fossils, and this was a huge discovery: Tiktaalik's fins had basic wrist bones and simple fingers at the end, which could have been weight-bearing. These discoveries were important. They showed that some key anatomical changes took place while animals were still technically fish.

(male student) But why did the head change first and why did they come out of the water anyway?

(professor) Good question, these fossils were discovered in the Arctic circle in Canada. And that land at the time was near the equator. It was warm and subtropical when Tiktaalik lived. They lived in estuaries and shallow tidal flats. Now, during this time, forests were beginning to grow beside rivers and lakes. The trees dropped their leaves into the water and the increasing levels of the bacteria that ate their remains used up the oxygen in the water. 
At the same time, the oxygen levels in the atmosphere were beginning to rise. The theory goes that fish living in shallow water that could air-breathe would have an advantage over fish that couldn't. And so it would make sense that changes relating to breathing occurred first.

(male student) So they were still aquatic but they could lift their heads out of the water to breathe?

(professor) Yes, and they could probably flop themselves up onto land for short periods of time.
