C1    Listen to a conversation between a student and their media studies professor

Professor: So, I just wanted to meet with you to see how you‘re progressing in class and on your class project.

Student: Well, um, actually, I‘ve got an idea for a topic that I wanted to talk to you about.

Professor: Great! Tell me about it

Student: Well, last spring, I took a two week course, uh, offered by one of the environmental science professors. We went to Alaska and we got to observe the research he‘s doing there on arctic birds.

Professor: With Professor Larson. 

Student: Right. And I did a lot of filming there, and I thought I could use some of that for my short documentary film, the one I‘ll make for class. Anyway, they‘re looking at how, um, how changes in the climate are affecting the birds there. 

Professor: Sounds promising. What are they looking for specifically?

Student: Well, these birds, some migrate, like, all the way from Southeast Asia, every year to breed. Anyway, with climate change, I guess spring is coming earlier, so they want to know how different bird species will respond to that, and the Arctic weather has always been pretty inconsistent, so they‘re looking at how stressed different kinds of birds get because of the variability to see if they can figure out which ones will adapt well and which ones won‘t.

Professor: Well, it‘s interesting research. You sound excited about it, that‘s great. And I guess you‘d have a lot of material to work with, so it‘ll be important to find a focus, both with the topic and uh, and with the structure of the film.

Student: Oh, yeah, we talked about the different structures in class, right? I thought I‘d use the linear one. You know, show where they started, and their progress, what they‘ve learned.

Professor: Right. Or, at least, during your time there. Remember, the film‘s only 5 minutes and this kind of research can stretch over years.

Student: Oh, yeah. Well, from my time there.

Professor: So, uh, as we discussed in class, this format works best when you have a central character, one person whose story you follow throughout the film. Were you thinking of working with Professor Larson? 

Student: Yeah, um, I already talked to her and she said she‘s interested. If you approve the topic, I want to start filming interviews with her right away.

Professor: Great. Well, look over the notes from class on how to conduct an interview. Remember that it‘s good to bring your camera for a test interview before hand to let her get used to it before the real interviews.

Student: Right. And also, to see how to position the camera, what the lighting is like in the room, you know, set up the shot.

