

L2       Listen to part of a lecture in a Biology class

P£ºWe‘ve been discussing predator-prey relationships. Will someone summarize what we went over last class?

S£ºWe focused on camouflaging, where a species tries to blend in with its surroundings in order to hide from predators. You showed us examples like the octopus, um, octopuses can change the color and even the texture of their skin to blend in really well with their environment.

P£ºOkay, and today I‘ll talk about another type of adaptation: mimicry. Uh, nothing fancy about the term here, mimicry, to mimic, just means to imitate. In biology, uh, a group of organisms called mimics can develop a trait or behavior that imitates the appearance, behaviors, sounds, or scents of another species. Unlike camouflage, the goal of mimicry is not to blend into the surroundings. The goal is to be mistaken for some other species. 

Again, we‘re talking about this in the context of predator-prey relationships. Mimicry is usually used as a way for animals to avoid predation by disguising themselves as another species that looks unappealing or even dangerous. When something harmless imitates something dangerous, that‘s Batesian mimicry. Uh, a basic example of Batesian mimicry: some flies have evolved to mimic the black and yellow stripes of bees to make themselves look more dangerous. Predators associate attacking bees with getting stung, so they avoid bees. Flies mimicking bees want predators to think they can sting. 

But there are more complex cases. Uh, we recently discovered a type of octopus off the coast of Indonesia that mimics not just one animal, but several. It‘s the first and only known species that can do this. Researchers found it impersonating two specific types of poisonous fish, and one type of poisonous sea snake. It fits its body shape and its movements to resemble these toxic animals, and when mimicking the sea snake, which has yellow and black bands, the octopus also changes color to have these colored bands, with evidence that it may decide which animal to mimic based on which predator is nearby.

Female student: It‘s actually choosing to turn itself into, I mean, choosing to look like a particular form in response to a particular threat?

P£ºExactly. For instance, when there‘s the threat of being attacked by a nearby damsel fish, this octopus specifically chooses to mimic the sea snake, because the sea snake eats damsel fish. Anyway, the dramatic finding, the fact that it can take on multiple disguises suggests other species may have this ability too. Okay, so much for Batesian mimicry. 

Now, some animals use mimicry for a different purpose. Researchers have been studying the Margay, a small cat that lives in the Amazon jungle. One time, they noticed the margay mimicking the cries of baby tamarinds, a type of monkey. Vocal mimicry itself isn‘t unusual, but it‘s usually used to scare a predator species away. What‘s odd is that in this case, the relationship is reversed. Margays prey on tamarinds, so they don‘t need to hide themselves or make themselves more dangerous. This margay instead tries to sound scared or threatened to draw tamarinds in close by sounding like a baby tamarind instead of a cat. So it seems that rather than using mimicry to avoid a predator, margays are actually using it to attract their prey, to find their next meal. The researchers noted that the margay‘s high-pitched squeals weren‘t a very good imitation of a baby tamarind, but that the squealing sound attracted the attention of the adult tamarinds anyway. Still, none of the tamarinds really fell for the trick. When tamarinds got closer to the crying sound, they realized it was coming from the margay and escaped before they could be attacked. Even so, that margays even use this technique suggest that they‘ve had some success with it in the past, maybe we were just observing them on an off day.

And margays probably aren‘t the only cat species in the Amazon adopting these new strategies. People who live in the Amazon have said they‘ve heard other cat species like jaguars and cougars tricking their prey this way. But those are just anecdotal reports and they still have to be confirmed by researchers. This type of mimicry may not be an innate, inborn trait. Margay moms may teach it to their young, so it‘s possible not all margays have this capability. It might just be a learned behavior kept within families.
