C1   Listen to a conversation between a student and an employee at the university art museum

Student: Hi, is uh, Nathan around?

Employee: No, sorry, he‘s gone for the day. Can I help you with something?

Student: Well, I hope so. See, I‘m supposed to start volunteering as a tour guide on Monday. I‘m scheduled to give a tour at 10. I did my first volunteer training session with Nathan the other day and I was supposed to have the second session tomorrow afternoon, which is the last one you guys offer this week, right?

Employee: Yes, it is. In fact, it‘s the last one we have scheduled for this semester.

Student: Yeah, that‘s what I was afraid of. So I don‘t know what to do because I‘m signed up to give that tour on Monday and it turns out I have to make up a test tomorrow afternoon.

Employee: Hmm. Well, yes, that is a problem I‘m afraid, because we do require two training sessions before you‘re allowed to start giving tours.

Student: I know. I was hoping maybe I could work something out with Nathan. He uh, he gave us his home number at the original training session, but I‘m not sure where I put it. Could you possibly give it to me again?

Employee: Well, no. I‘m not allowed to give out employees‘ phone numbers. It wouldn‘t do you any good anyway. Nathan can‘t waive that training requirement any more than I can. But I can sign you up for the first session next semester and you could start giving tours then. 

Student: Hmm, that‘s too late. Oh, not that I wouldn‘t want to do tours next semester. I mean, I do want to keep doing it, it‘s just that, see, I really need to start this semester. It‘s¡­ my art history professor is giving me a chance to bring my grade up. He said I could get extra credit if I wrote a paper for him and volunteered here at the art museum.

Employee: Is this Professor Tyler‘s class?

Student: Mmhmm 

Employee: Yeah, I thought so. You‘re not the first student he‘s sent our way. Look, did he specify that it had to be as a tour guide?

Student: Well, not exactly, I just thought¡­

Employee: Because believe me, we could use you in other capacities.

Student: Really? Like¡­

Employee: Well, it‘s not as glamorous as being a tour guide, but we always need people to work in the museum gift shop, or recording data entries. Data processing, something like that?

Student: I‘m pretty good, actually.

Employee: Because we definitely need somebody right away to help us keep our membership list up to date; work on our monthly newsletter, things like that. Sounds kind of boring, I know, but, after you‘ve had some experience, it could lead to a paid position.

Student: Well that would certainly be a plus. Tell you what. Let me just check with Professor Tyler, make sure it‘s alright with him, and I‘ll get back to you sometime tomorrow, ok?

Employee: Ok, great!
