

L4         Listen to part of a lecture in an art history class

Teacher: My topic today is a small, oil painting by the 17th century Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer, Girl with a Pearl Earring. It‘s signed by the artist but not dated, and it‘s probably the most often reproduced of all of Vermeer‘s work. 

At first, it looks like a portrait, but technically, it‘s not. It belongs to a category known in Dutch as A Trone. Trone is a category that‘s familiar to scholars for many examples by other 17th century Dutch masters. The subjects of Tronies we not intended to be recognized as individuals, but as interesting characters or archetypes such as the dashing soldier or the wise teacher. Tronies were usually depicted with just a head and shoulders, whereas portraits were normally half-length or full length and were much more formally composed.

As you can see, the girl is wearing a yellow garment and a blue and yellow turban. Her earrings, a teardrop shaped piece of glass that‘s been varnished to look like a gigantic pearl and she‘s turning to look at it over her left shoulder.

Male Student: It‘s almost like a snapshot, I mean not a formal photo, but...

Teacher: Interesting observation, John. It does seem spontaneous, but there‘s actually painstaking class on display here. Notice the way her head‘s lit with a highlight on the front of the turban and a reflective light that bounces up from her collar. Softly lighting the jaw from below. This lighting scheme echoes in the earring. Her lips are slightly open, making it possible for the artist to create the most remarkable detail of all, on the left, a narrow stream of light passes between her lips and strikes the opposite corner of her mouth as a little point of light and then stands out and spreads across her cheek. This shows Vermeer‘s powerful observation of optical effects and his amazing ability to translate that observation into paint. Another point I want to make, something about the girl is elusive somehow. Now why is that?

Male Student: Well maybe it‘s because there aren‘t any walls or furniture telling us where the girl is or her social status or when she lived.

Teacher: Exactly. No setting, no prompt, no specifics in her costume. Not even a hairstyle. So she doesn‘t belong to any particular time or place. I think this elusive, this enigmatic quality is responsible, in part, for the painting‘s popularity.

Female Student: It reminds me of what people say about the Mona Lisa.

Teacher: Right! The great Italian renaissance painter, Leonardo DaVinci also created a sense of mystery with Mona Lisa‘s hard to interpret smile. You know, a few years ago, a computer analysis was done on Mona Lisa‘s face using software that evaluates facial expressions, and I believe it found that she was happy, disgusted, fearful, and angry all at once. 

Anyway, getting back to our topic, it‘s no coincidence that Girl with a Pearl Earring has captured the imagination of contemporary writers. Have any of you read the bestselling novel called Girl with a Pearl Earring or seen the movie adaptation of it? There‘s also an opera, partially based on the painting. Well, all of these contemporary works try to supply missing facts to complete our understanding of this image.

But despite the painting‘s elusive qualities, the girl‘s features are quite specific, so it‘s unlikely that she‘s imaginary.

Female Student: I heard she was Vermeer‘s oldest child

Teacher: Yes! An interesting theory! Vermeer, and, um, Vermeer and his wife had many children. The eldest, Maria, was probably born in 1654, and Girl with a Pearl Earring bears a striking resemblance to a girl in another Vermeer painting, also undated. The two leading experts on Vermeer are close to agreeing that Pearl Earring was painted when Maria would have been between 10 and 12. Those same scholars believe the other painting was made a year later, but keep in mind that these dates are based solely on the expert‘s opinion of where these paintings fit into the development of Vermeer‘s style. In my view, the style of these painting could fit just as well into when Maria was a couple of years older. But how does any of this prove that the girl pictured was Maria? After Vermeer‘s death, his wife had to sell his artwork to pay bills, but she tried to keep the other painting I just referred to in her family. I suspect it was because it included an image of one of her children.
